the rise of the bourgeoisie in the nineteenth century
the proletariat and the bourgeoisie
The forum was aimed at key business leaders from across the private, public and third sectors in the region.
the woman's hat
Peter's desk
children's clothes
Shall we go to David's (= David's house) tonight?
(BrE) I'll call in at the chemist's on my way home.
She's still in the bath.
What's he doing now?
It's time to go now.
Who's taken my pen?
Where's he gone?
It's gone wrong again.
Let's go out for lunch.
calculable
taxable
fashionable
comfortable
changeable
capability
responsibility
noticeably
incredibly
Can you play the piano?
I can hear someone calling.
The podcast can be downloaded here.
Can you/are you able to come on Saturday?
You'll be able to get a taxi outside the station.
I haven't been able to get much work done today.
She'd love to be able to play the piano.
Our daughter could walk when she was nine months old.
I was able to/managed to find some useful books in the library.
We weren't able to/didn't manage to/couldn't get there in time.
I could see there was something wrong.
I could have won the game but decided to let her win.
infancy
accuracy
chaplaincy
breakage
bondage
baggage
mileage
postage
anchorage
a shopaholic
a chocaholic
magical
verbal
survival
kitchenalia
magically
sensationally
Bostonian
Brazilian
Shakespearian
Libran
mathematician
Mozartiana
Americana
Victoriana
assistance
confidence
expectancy
complacency
significant
different
inhabitant
deterrent
I'm writing to answer your questions.
I'm writing to reply to your questions.
I haven't answered her email yet.
I knocked on the door but nobody answered.
'I won't let you down,' he replied.
The directors were unwilling to respond to questions.
I'm writing in answer to your letter.
humanitarian
disciplinarian
planetary
budgetary
passionate
Italianate
hyphenate
activate
a doctorate
the electorate
sulphate
a swimathon
illustrative
talkative
creatively
creator
percolator
geocentric
Eurocentric
ethnocentric
homicidal
suicide
genocide
insecticide
democracy
bureaucracy
democrat
bureaucrat
aristocratic
talented
bearded
diseased
hated
walked
loved
a multidimensional model
freedom
martyrdom
kingdom
officialdom
appendectomy (= removal of the appendix )
employee
absentee
refugee
auctioneer
mountaineer
profiteer
commandeer
blacken
sadden
wooden
golden
Internet-enabled devices
lover
computer
three-wheeler
foreigner
astronomer
philosopher
New Yorker
wider
bigger
happier
sooner
greenery
gadgetry
bravery
rivalry
cookery
archery
bakery
orangery
Chinese
Viennese
journalese
officialese
It's too far to walk—I'll take you by car.
Firefighters led the survivors to safety.
The president arrived, escorted by twelve bodyguards.
My mother drove us to the airport.
The attendant showed us to our seats.
He always walked her home.
Have you walked the dog yet today?
She guided us through the busy streets.
We were guided around the museums.
She ushered her guests to their seats.
A young woman directed them to the station.
statuesque
Kafkaesque
She loves all sports, especially swimming.
I especially like sweet things.
a course specially designed to meet your needs
She has her clothes specially made in Paris.
I bought this especially/specially for you.
It is especially/specially important to remember this.
lioness
actress
My daughter prefers to see a woman doctor.
They have a male nanny for their kids.
a female racing driver
Everyone needs to feel he is loved.
Does everybody know what they want?
Somebody's left their coat here.
I hope nobody's forgotten to bring their passport with them.
Everyone knows what's best for him- or herself.
If in doubt, ask your doctor. He/she can give you more information.
Babies cry when they are tired.
widest
biggest
happiest
soonest
kitchenette
usherette
a jazzfest
a talkfest (= a session involving long discussions)
(usually disapproving) a lovefest (= an event in which people show too much affection for each other that may not be genuine)
to increase tenfold
sorrowful
masterful
forgetful
handful
spoonful
purify
solidify
She asked if/whether I wanted a drink.
We didn't know if/whether we should write or phone.
choreography
geography
radiography
calligraphy
biography
The cybercafe was a nethead's dream.
a gearhead
a crackhead
a smackhead
a pothead
childhood
falsehood
the priesthood
the pleasures and pains of everyday life
It's been a pleasure meeting you.
the delights of living in the country
the joys and sorrows of childhood
It was a great privilege to hear her sing.
You've never been to this area before? Then you're in for a real treat.
It was a great honour to be invited here today.
dictatorial
officially
scenic
economic
Arabic
horrific
specific
comical
physically
physics
poetics
athletics
chloride
a sit-in
a teach-in
hating
walking
loving
hesitation
competition
confession
Turkish
Irish
childish
reddish
thirtyish
The thieves took three pieces of valuable jewellery.
a precious Chinese vase, valued at half a million pounds
precious memories of our time together
a priceless collection of antiques
foolishly
criticism
heroism
Buddhism
racism
an Americanism
a colloquialism
alcoholism
atheist
dentist
violinist
plagiarist
fashionistas who are slaves to the latest trends
Blairite
Trotskyite
Is your knee still painful?
a series of painful injections
a slow and painful death
a sore throat
Their feet were sore after hours of walking.
The skin on her feet had been rubbed raw.
The wound had become inflamed.
She felt a burning sensation in her throat.
an itchy rash
I feel itchy all over.
tonsillitis
World Cup-itis
purity
oddity
explosive
descriptive
privatize
fossilize
Americanize
criticize
theorize
deputize
pasteurize
hospitalize
immunization
organizationally
Lalitaji
guruji
treeless
meaningless
tireless
selfless
hopelessly
helplessness
booklet
piglet
starlet
We can hire bikes for a day to explore the town.
We don't own our TV, we rent it.
Do you hire out bikes?
We rent out rooms in our house to students.
(BrE) To let
(especially NAmE) For rent
We hired a new secretary.
(BrE) Bikes for hire
childlike
shell-like
duckling
princeling
a monologue
sociology
genealogy
phraseology
trilogy
pathological
biologist
happily
stupidly
cowardly
scholarly
hourly
daily
kleptomania
a pyromaniac
a horror-meister
bombardment
development
governmental
judgemental
inmost (= the furthest in)
southernmost
topmost (= the furthest up/nearest to the top)
dryness
blindness
silliness
She was of a nervous disposition.
She became neurotic about keeping the house clean.
She was always on edge before an interview.
All this talk of job losses was making him jittery.
humanoid
rhomboid
actor
As I see it, we have two options…
Students have the option of studying abroad in their second year.
Choose the 'Cut' option from the Edit menu.
If I had the choice, I would stop working tomorrow.
There is a wide range of choices open to you.
You can be paid in cash weekly or by cheque monthly: those are the two alternatives.
If I had the choice/option, I would…
parental choice in education
We need to explore a wide range of possibilities.
The possibilities are endless.
explanatory
observatory
poisonous
mountainous
He can speak three languages.
She will try and visit tomorrow.
You must find a job.
You ought to stop smoking.
I used to smoke but I gave up two years ago.
Can I invite Mary?
Should I have invited Mary?
gloriously
spaciousness
Anglophile
bibliophile
paedophilia
Anglophobe
xenophobe
the cats' tails
their wives' jobs
landscape
seascape
moonscape
a job-share (= a job that is done by two people who each work for part of the week)
(BrE) a nanny share (= an arrangement for sb to work for two families)
(especially BrE) We encourage people to carshare to reduce congestion on the roads.
(NAmE) to rideshare
ownership
friendship
citizenship
professorship
musicianship
membership
fearsome
quarrelsome
a foursome
management-speak
Visitors to websites don't want to read marketing-speak.
gangster
youngster
We have a toptastic line-up of stars for you tonight.
Try this new choctastic recipe!
sixth
fifteenth
hundredth
growth
his bride-to-be
mothers-to-be (= pregnant women)
closure
failure
backward
eastward
homeward
onwards
forwards
lengthways
sideways
likewise
clockwise
Things aren't too good businesswise.
dusty
clayey
runny
sticky
inquiry
doggy
daddy
The centre offers activities like canoeing and sailing and such.
We got our money's worth and then some.
The true consequences will only be known several years hence.
Brown is the new black.
Comedy is the new rock and roll.
Fifty is the new forty.
For him it's the Olympics or bust.
There were twenty or so (= about twenty) people there.
We stayed for an hour or so.
We can charge $50 a pop.
The movie's ticket sales add up to $39 million, and counting.
There are Indian, Chinese, Mexican, Thai restaurants… and then some!
'Ian can't come because he's tired.' 'Tired my foot! Lazy more like!'
Don't let 'em get away.
Now that's a whole 'nother question.
Some critics argue that Picasso remained a great master all his life.
Others maintain that there is a significant deterioration in quality in his post-war work.
Picasso himself claimed that good art is created, but great art is stolen.
As Smith has noted, Picasso borrowed imagery from African art.
As the author points out, Picasso borrowed imagery from African art.
The writer challenges the notion that Picasso's sculpture was secondary to his painting.
It has been suggested that Picasso's painting was influenced by jazz music.
That was a good 'un.
The little 'uns (= the small children) couldn't keep up.
I'm afraid in this line of work it's a case of dog eat dog.
We're operating in a dog-eat-dog world.
the brave new world of technology
I can't get a job because I haven't got anywhere to live but I can't afford a place to live until I get a job—it's a catch-22 situation.
'They might let us in without tickets.' 'Fat chance of that!'
She lives by herself.
She runs the business by herself.
He lives all by himself.
He managed to repair the car by himself.
The machine will start by itself in a few seconds.
The house stands by itself in an acre of land.
I live by myself.
I painted the room all by myself.
They wanted to spend the evening by themselves.
They did the cooking by themselves.
How long were you by yourself in the house?
Are you sure you did this exercise by yourself?
Are you here all by your lonesome?
Political sex scandals are all grist to the mill of the tabloid newspapers.
Be patient, Emily! All in good time.
They were lucky to get home in one piece.
The houses are all of a piece.
The house was built all of a piece in 1754.
I'm all on my own today.
She lives on her own.
He did it on his own.
He did the work so badly that I had to do it all over again myself.
His achievement is remarkable; all the more so because he had no help at all.
She wants a room all to herself.
He has the house to himself during the week.
I had a whole pizza to myself.
We had the pool all to ourselves.
I'm going to be away next week so you'll have the office to yourself.
The summer season was almost upon them again.
We always check people's addresses as a matter of course.
He's a highly intelligent man.
She asked a lot of intelligent questions.
She's smarter than her brother.
That was a smart career move.
How clever of you to work it out!
He's too clever by half, if you ask me.
He's a brilliant young scientist.
She's probably the brightest student in the class.
Oh well, that's all as clear as mud, then.
a business trip
a five-minute trip by taxi
a long and difficult journey across the mountains
a trip to New York
a round-the-world trip
(BrE) What is your journey to work like?
a tour of Bavaria
the first expedition to the South Pole
We went on an all-day excursion to the island.
The children were on a day's outing from school.
We had a day out at the beach.
What a disgusting smell!
She could smell his foul breath.
The stew looked revolting.
The kids have been as good as gold all day.
I've had your coat cleaned—it's as good as new now.
I hadn't seen her for fifteen years and then there she was, (as) large as life.
She would be in bed by now, as like as not.
He was glad he'd come.
She was glad when the meeting was over.
We are happy to announce the engagement of our daughter.
She was very pleased with her exam results.
You're coming? I'm so pleased.
I'm delighted at your news.
'Can you stay for dinner?' 'I'd be delighted (to).'
proud parents
He was proud of himself for not giving up.
You'll be relieved to know your jobs are safe.
I was thrilled to be invited.
She was not exactly thrilled at the prospect of looking after her niece.
Quick as a flash she was at his side.
He is home by six every day, regular as clockwork.
You can trust me not to tell anyone.
Don't trust what you read in the newspapers!
He was the sort of person you could depend on.
Can you depend on her version of what happened?
Can I rely on you to keep this secret?
You can't rely on any figures you get from them.
You can't really rely on his judgement.
I'm counting on you to help me.
We can't count on the good weather lasting.
They need a leader they can believe in.
Hurry up! He'll be back any minute now.
Hurry up! He'll be back any moment now.
The President visited the area to see the devastation at first hand.
She had the car stereo on at full blast.
I'm fed up of hearing about these decisions third hand!
a place where you can feel at one with nature
His views are grounded on the assumption that all people are equal.
The police were much in evidence at today's demonstration.
Peter and Judy seem made for each other, don't they?
I'll be on call the night of the party.
We have very few nurses on our books at the moment.
Most of the houses on our books are in the north of the city.
I've been on tenterhooks all week waiting for the results.
The new publicity manager is really on the ball.
I was under the impression that the work had already been completed.
Do you think (that) they'll come?
Well, I like it. What do you think?
Police believe (that) the man may be armed.
Police believe…
I think…
We all felt (that) we were unlucky to lose.
I reckon (that) I'm going to get that job.
I got called on the carpet for being late.
There was a fox on the prowl near the chickens.
an intruder on the prowl
The long-term future of the space programme hangs in the balance.
Someone was beating at the door.
A young man was found beaten to death last night.
At that time, children were often beaten for quite minor offences(= as a punishment).
He had been badly battered around the head and face.
Severe winds have been battering the coast.
Heavy rain pounded on the roof.
The rain lashed at the window.
He hammered the door with his fists.
I was thrown off balance by the sudden gust of wind.
The senator was clearly caught off balance by the unexpected question.
Help was at hand.
The property is ideally located with all local amenities close at hand.
I was determined to go, come hell or high water.
He goes jogging every morning, rain or shine.
Well, that's my good turn for the day.
You can't go—do you hear me?
a straight A student
Every now and again she checked to see if he was still asleep.
She felt honour-bound to attend as she had promised to.
She's been flat on her back for over a week now.
(figurative) The UK market was flat on its back (= business was very bad).
The journey takes about an hour door to door.
a door-to-door salesman
a rags-to-riches story
Hers was a classic tale of rags to riches.
There are certain to be more job losses further down the road.
They've got us over a barrel. Either we agree to their terms or we lose the money.
Get your hands off my wife!
Hey, hands off! That's my drink!
I'll see that you get a fair hearing.
We got a rap over the knuckles for being late.
It's just money down the drain, you know.
Safety standards have gone down the drain.
Good heavens, what are you doing?
Good Lord, what have you done to your hair!
News of rising unemployment followed hard on the heels of falling export figures.
an Olympic athlete with five gold medals to his name
She doesn't have a penny/cent to her name (= she is very poor).
You're young, intelligent, attractive—you have a lot going for you!
All those years of hard work, and nothing to show for it!
Someone's been and parked in front of the entrance!
I'd better be going now. See you!
It's a complex issue, but he only sees it in black and white.
This is not a black-and-white decision (= where the difference between two choices is completely clear).
The robbery occurred in broad daylight, in a crowded street.
Their conversation was interrupted in midstream by the baby crying.
They made their way in single file along the cliff path.
in the first flush of youth/enthusiasm/romance
It is little wonder (that) she was so upset.
(informal) No wonder you're tired, you've been walking for hours.
I paid £150 for this camera and am more than happy with it. It does exactly what it says on the tin!
Her house is just around the corner.
(figurative) There were good times around the corner (= they would soon come).
They're all volunteers, working for the love of it.
Just for once he arrived on time.
Can't you be nice to each other just this once?
They stole the car just for the hell of it.
And, for the record, he would be the last person I'd ask.
You'd better take the keys in case I'm out.
You probably won't need to call—but take my number, just in case.
In case (= if it is true that) you're wondering why Jo's here—let me explain…
It wasn't your fault. It was just one of those things.
I'll be famous one day, just you wait!
We keep our valuables under lock and key.
I will not rest until the murderer is under lock and key.
Chin up! Only two exams left.
She'll persuade him. He's like putty in her hands.
I can't tell my son what to do; it's water off a duck's back with him.
He has more than his fair share of problems.
I've had my fair share of success in the past.
Their life together hasn't exactly been a bed of roses.
I didn't enjoy it at all.
He won't cut it as a professional singer.
I didn't cut the mustard as a hockey player.
When Mary starts talking, no one else can get a word in edgeways.
She talks so much that nobody else can get a look-in.
'Did she say she was sorry?' 'Not in so many words.'
He didn't approve of the plan and said so in as many words.
I thought I'd go mad if I stayed any longer.
A crazy old woman rented the upstairs room.
That noise is driving me nuts!
You guys are nuts!
Her mum's completely batty.
She was out of her mind with grief.
No one in their right mind would choose to work there.
You're not looking yourself today (= you look tired or ill/sick).
Poetry isn't really my bag.
If you believe you can make her happy, I won't stand in your way.
On the one hand they'd love to have kids, but on the other, they don't want to give up their freedom.
This survey highlights a number of differences in the way that teenage boys and girls in the UK spend their free time.
One of the main differences between the girls and the boys who took part in the research was the way in which they use the Internet.
Unlike the girls, who use the Internet mainly to keep in touch with friends, the boys questioned in this survey tend to use the Internet for playing computer games.
The girls differ from the boys in that they tend to spend more time keeping in touch with friends on the telephone or on social networking websites.
Compared to the boys, the girls spend much more time chatting to friends on the telephone.
On average the girls spend four hours a week chatting to friends on the phone. In contrast, very few of the boys spend more than five minutes a day talking to their friends in this way.
The boys prefer competitive sports and computer games, whereas / while the girls seem to enjoy more cooperative activities, such as shopping with friends.
When the girls go shopping, they mainly buy clothes and cosmetics. The boys, on the other hand, tend to purchase computer games or gadgets.
The agreement will open the door to increased international trade.
Our courses are the door to success in English.
the problems of young people living on the streets
If it had been left to me I would have put him out on the street long ago.
a night on the town
How about going out on the town tonight?
To put it in a nutshell, we're bankrupt.
If we don't make a profit, my job is on the line.
A defeat in the second round marked the end of the line for last year's champion.
'Where is that boy?' As if on cue, Simon appeared in the doorway.
This job seems right up your street.
She said nothing in case her temper slipped out of gear.
She has taken to teaching like a duck to water.
I puzzled over the problem for ages before the light suddenly dawned.
He repeated none of the errors he'd made first time round.
This time round it was not so easy.
Same again, please!
'Happy Christmas!' 'And the same to you!'
'Get lost!' 'Same to you!'
It was the wrong decision—there are no two ways about it.
'Do you want to help?' 'No way!'
No way am I going to drive them there.
There's no way we could afford that sort of money.
You'll soon learn. There's nothing to it really.
The British prime minister is too apt to cling to Washington's apron strings.
We're mortgaged up to the hilt.
They have promised to back us to the hilt.
I completely forgot her birthday, what with one thing and another.
The champions came out (with) all guns blazing.
The tickets for the dinner were £50 a throw.
It's a clever plan, but the sixty-four thousand dollar question is: will it work?
Let me give you the 10000-foot view.
I can take the kids too—it's a 12.
I got a 2.1.
360-degree feedback assessments
360-degree feedback surveys assess your strengths and weaknesses.
360-degree feedback can be invaluable for improving managerial performance.
3G technology
3G wireless networking solutions
We are leaders in 3G mobile phones in this country.
Call 411.
He'll give us the 411 on what to expect.
a 4G phone
4G technology
(NAmE) Call 911.
(BrE) Dial 999.
a man/horse/unit
an aunt/egg/hour/X-ray
I can only carry two at a time.
There's a visitor for you.
She's a friend of my father's (= one of my father's friends).
a good knowledge of French
a sadness that won't go away
A lion is a dangerous animal.
Their new car's a BMW.
She's a Buddhist.
He's a teacher.
Is that a Monet (= a painting by Monet)?
a knife and fork
A thousand people were there.
They cost 50p a kilo.
I can type 50 words a minute.
He was driving at 50 miles an hour.
She's a little Hitler.
There's a Mrs Green to see you.
She died on a Tuesday.
'Apple' begins with (an) A/'A'.
She got (an) A in/for Biology.
He had straight A's (= nothing but A's) all through high school.
Shall we go for plan A or plan B?
Assume A knows B is guilty.
For me a car is just a means of getting from A to B.
He knew his subject from A to Z.
the A34 to Newbury
a sheet of A4 paper (= 297×210mm)
A3 (= 420×297mm)
A5 (= 210×148mm)
She's done a darn sight better than I have.
It's worth a damn sight more than I thought.
Since her hip operation she's had a new lease of life.
He'll come to a sticky end one of these days if he carries on like that.
Life hasn't exactly been a barrel of laughs lately.
Beating the world champions is certainly a big ask for the team.
It's a bit much calling me at three in the morning.
We may have a bit of a problem on our hands.
The rail strike is a bit of a pain.
They were eager for a second bite of the cherry.
Her dismissal came as a bolt from the blue.
There isn't a bottomless pit of money for public spending.
the bottomless pit of his sorrow
We'll get a breath of fresh air at lunchtime.
Some bright spark (= stupid person) left the tap running all night.
The website has a variety of interactive exercises (e.g. matching games, crosswords and quizzes).
The website has a variety of interactive exercises, including matching games, crosswords and quizzes.
Web 2.0 technologies, such as wikis, blogs and social networking sites, have changed the way that people use the Internet. *
Many websites now allow users to contribute information. A good example of this is the 'wiki', a type of website that anyone can edit.
Wikis vary in how open they are. For example, some wikis allow anybody to edit content, while others only allow registered users to do this.
Wikis vary in how open they are. Some wikis, for example / for instance, allow anybody to edit content, while others only allow registered users to do this.
More and more people read their news on the Internet. To take one example, over 14 million people now read the online version of 'The Oxford Herald'.
Online newspapers are now more popular than paper ones. 'The Oxford Herald' is a case in point. Its print circulation has fallen in recent years, while its website attracts millions of users every month.
She wanted to make a clean break with the past.
No government operates with a completely clean sheet.
They kept a clean sheet in the match (= no goals were scored against them).
We got him out in the end, but it was a close thing.
A 'nomad settlement' is a contradiction in terms.
His latest novel is a cut above the rest.
May I borrow it for a day or two?
I've had a devil of a job finding you.
He's made a real dog's breakfast of these accounts.
The merger is by no means a done deal yet.
I felt we weren't given a fair crack of the whip.
Paul can't drive so he was a fat lot of use when I broke my arm.
Few people understand the difference.
There seem to be fewer tourists around this year.
Very few students learn Latin now.
We've had a few replies.
I need a few things from the store.
Quite a few people are going to arrive early.
I try to visit my parents every few weeks.
Very few of his books are worth reading.
You can pass with as few as 25 points.
(formal) Few will argue with this conclusion.
I recognized a few of the other people.
I've seen most of his movies. Only a few are as good as his first one.
Could you give me a few more details?
Fewer than 20 students passed all the exams.
There are no fewer than 100 different species in the area.
Real power belongs to the few.
She was one of the chosen few (= the small group with special rights).
I've been there quite a few times.
Those children need a firm hand to make them behave.
I'd love to be a fly on the wall when he tells her the news.
fly-on-the-wall documentaries (= in which people are filmed going about their normal lives as if the camera were not there)
He sold the cafe as a going concern.
There are still a good few empty seats.
It's a good job you were there to help.
Clothes are a safe bet as a present for a teenager.
Don't lay a guilt trip on your child about schoolwork.
She left her children behind with a heavy heart.
This issue has had a high profile in recent months.
I advised her to keep a low profile for the next few days (= not to attract attention).
His letter to the papers stirred up a real hornets' nest.
Romance is one thing, marriage is quite another.
It's one thing to tease your sister, but it's another to hit her.
There was a job of work waiting for him that he was not looking forward to.
I had a kind of feeling this might happen.
a new band that sings à la Beatles
apple pie à la mode
You need three A levels to get onto this university course.
What A levels are you doing?
I'm doing maths A level.
two A level passes/two passes at A level
She handles this difficult subject with a light touch.
It's a long shot, but it just might work.
It was all over in a matter of minutes.
The bullet missed her by a matter of inches.
He doesn't particularly like the work but he sees it as a means to an end.
My debts are a millstone around my neck.
Miyazaki is still a name to conjure with among anime fans.
He comes from Tighnabruaich—now there's a name to conjure with!
Phew! That was a near thing! It could have been a disaster.
We won in the end but it was a near thing.
Searching for one man in this city is like looking for a needle in a haystack.
Well, you know what they say— a new broom sweeps clean.
'Have you come across this before?' 'No, it's a new one on me.'
They enjoy a night out occasionally.
Everything could be done by a nod and a wink.
They've been spending a lot of time together, nudge nudge, wink wink.
We need an extra pair of hands if we're going to finish on time.
Colleagues regard him as a safe pair of hands (= sb who can be relied on to do a job well).
He deserves a pat on the back for all his hard work.
Thank you for those pearls of wisdom.
Foreign firms will all want a piece of the action if the new airport goes ahead.
I've had a pig of a day.
There's still a big question mark hanging over his future with the team.
Older workers often get a raw deal.
Candles on the table gave the evening a sense of occasion.
The figure he came up with was really just a shot in the dark.
Did I call you Richard? Sorry, Robert, just a slip of the tongue.
It's a sore point with Sue's parents that the children have not been baptized yet.
I had a sort of feeling that he wouldn't come.
They're a sort of greenish-blue colour.
He looks as though he hasn't had a square meal for weeks.
This state of affairs can no longer be ignored.
the present economic situation
The ship sank in mysterious circumstances.
She felt she was in a position of power.
We were forced to work outside in freezing conditions.
Hi, Jane! How are things?
Think things over before you decide.
If that is the case(= if the situation described is true), we need more staff.
How did this unhappy state of affairs come about?
to grant a stay of execution
We live just a stone's throw from here.
The hotel is within a stone's throw of the beach.
Let the bully have a taste of his own medicine.
an A to Z of needlework
The phone ringing interrupted my train of thought.
His idea worked a treat (= was successful).
He put on an impressive turn of speed in the last lap.
The role isn't exactly a walk in the park.
She has friends from all walks of life.
the political war of words over tax
It's my birthday a week on Tuesday.
She started work a week yesterday.
I'm feeling a whole lot better.
There were a whole lot of people I didn't know.
I lost a whole lot of money.
A wind of change was blowing through the banking world.
His new luxury mansion was a world away from the tiny house where he was born.
atypical
asexually
He only invited A-list celebrities to his parties.
A-lister Cameron Diaz
Everything's A-OK now.
The party went off A-OK.
It starts at 10 a.m.
The firm was in a hell of a mess when he took over.
It must have been one hell of a party.
That's one helluva big house you've got.
I'm not a hundred per cent sure.
My family supports me one hundred per cent.
I still don't feel a hundred per cent.
The meal worked out at $20 a head.
You're some piece of work, Jack, do you know that?
The win last week was the only bright spot in their last ten games.
She finally learned to drive at the grand old age of 70.
James Lovelock, the grand old man of environmental science
Despite his six years in politics, he was still regarded by many as the new kid on the block.
New Zealand is at the top of the pecking order of rugby nations.
He lived to the ripe old age of 91.
The movie has a car chase to end all car chases.
There's a world of difference between liking someone and loving them.
the American way of life
I've tried everyone else and now you're my last resort.
The car was in A1 condition.
A2 exams
Aargh—get that cat off the table!
The agreement was declared void ab initio.
the ab initio design of a new car
She was completely taken aback by his anger.
The outcome didn't surprise me at all.
Sorry, I didn't mean to startle you.
The explosion startled the horse.
Just the huge size of the place amazed her.
The news astonished everyone.
He was astonished by his own stupidity.
We were rather taken aback by her hostile reaction.
His arrogance astounded her.
The baby had been abandoned by its mother.
The study showed a deep fear among the elderly of being abandoned to the care of strangers.
Snow forced many drivers to abandon their vehicles.
He gave the order to abandon ship (= to leave the ship because it was sinking).
They had to abandon their lands to the invading forces.
They abandoned the match because of rain.
She abandoned hope of any reconciliation.
The country abandoned its political leaders after the war.
Critics accused him of abandoning his principles.
He abandoned himself to despair.
He signed cheques with careless abandon.
an abandoned car/house
The child was found abandoned but unharmed.
the government's abandonment of its new economic policy
The storm showed no signs of abating.
Steps are to be taken to abate pollution.
aberrant behaviour
Westminster Abbey
a ruined abbey
the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (usually abbreviated to JPL)
Where appropriate, abbreviated forms are used.
What's the abbreviation for 'Saint'?
Do you know your ABC?
the ABC of gardening
ABD students may apply.
He abdicated in favour of his son.
She was forced to abdicate the throne of Spain.
abdominal pains
He was abetted in the deception by his wife.
She stands accused of aiding and abetting the crime.
Racism is abhorrent to a civilized society.
I can't abide people with no sense of humour.
He couldn't abide the thought of being cooped up in an office.
May joy and peace abide in us all.
You'll have to abide by the rules of the club.
We will abide by their decision.
The system has the ability to run more than one program at the same time.
Everyone has the right to good medical care regardless of their ability to pay.
A gentle form of exercise will increase your ability to relax.
Almost everyone has some musical ability.
He was a man of extraordinary abilities.
students of mixed abilities
A woman of her ability will easily find a job.
I try to do my job to the best of my ability (= as well as I can).
abiotic processes
abject poverty/misery/failure
an abject apology
The whole building was soon ablaze.
Cars and buses were set ablaze during the riot.
There were lights still ablaze as they drove up to the house.
The trees were ablaze with the colours of autumn.
He turned to her, his eyes ablaze with anger.
You must be able to speak French for this job.
A viral illness left her barely able to walk.
I didn't feel able to disagree with him.
Will you be able to come?
the ablest student in the class
We aim to help the less able in society to lead an independent life.
We were ably assisted by a team of volunteers.
abnormal levels of sugar in the blood
They thought his behaviour was abnormal.
abnormally high blood pressure
abnormalities of the heart
congenital/foetal abnormality
We went aboard.
He was already aboard the plane.
The plane crashed, killing all 157 passengers aboard.
All aboard! (= the bus, boat, etc. is leaving soon)
Welcome aboard! (= used to welcome passengers or a person joining a new organization, etc.)
homeless people of no fixed abode (= with no permanent home)
You are most welcome to my humble abode.
This tax should be abolished.
the abolition of slavery
The judge described the attack as an abominable crime.
We were served the most abominable coffee.
She treated him abominably.
the issue of Aboriginal land rights
the aboriginal peoples of Canada
aboriginal art/culture
to abort a child/pregnancy/foetus
The virus can cause pregnant animals to abort.
(computing 计算机) If the wrong password is given the program aborts.
We had no option but to abort the mission.
The plan was aborted at the last minute.
to support/oppose abortion
a woman's right to abortion
abortion laws
I've always been anti-abortion.
She decided to have an abortion.
an abortive military coup
abortive attempts to divert the course of the river
Stories about his travels abound.
The lakes abound with fish.
It costs about $10.
They waited (for) about an hour.
He arrived (at) about ten.
I'm just about ready.
This is about the best we can hope for.
The children were rushing about in the garden.
Her books were lying about on the floor.
People were standing about in the road.
There was nobody about.
There's a lot of flu about.
He brought the ship about.
The earth goes round/around the sun.
They live round/around the corner.
We travelled round/around India.
She turned round/around when I came in.
The kids were running around/round/about outside.
I've been waiting around/round/about to see her all day.
We left around/about 8 o'clock.
'Anything else?' 'No, that's about it for now.'
I've met just about everyone.
'Did you reach your sales target?' 'Just about.'
She should be arriving just about now.
We've been out and about talking to people all over the country.
a book about flowers
Tell me all about it.
What's she so angry about?
There's something strange about him.
I don't know what you're on about (= talking about).
There's nothing you can do about it now.
The book is about homeless people in the cities.
The report deals with the issue of homelessness in London.
The writer discusses the problems faced by homeless people.
The article presents an overview of the issues surrounding homelessness.
The novel explores the theme of friendship among homeless people.
The first chapter examines the relationship between homelessness and drug addiction.
The paper considers the question of why so many young people become homeless.
Movies are all about making money these days.
What was all that about? (= what was the reason for what has just happened?)
Everywhere people were going about their daily business.
And while you're about it … (= while you're doing that)
We wandered about the town for an hour or so.
He looked about the room.
The papers were strewn about the room.
She's somewhere about the office.
She wore a shawl about her shoulders.
How about Ruth? Have you heard from her?
I'm having fish. What about you?
How about going for a walk?
(especially NAmE) How about we go for a walk?
What about a break?
I was just about to ask you the same thing.
I've never done any cooking and I'm not about to start now.
The government did an about-turn over nuclear energy.
The water came above our knees.
We were flying above the clouds.
the people in the apartment above mine
A captain in the navy ranks above a captain in the army.
They finished the year six places above their local rivals.
Inflation is above 6%.
Temperatures have been above average.
We cannot accept children above the age of 10.
They built a new room above/over the garage.
They jumped over the stream.
He put a blanket over the sleeping child.
2 000 feet above sea level
Temperatures will not rise above zero tonight.
He's over 50.
It costs over £100.
We waited over 2 hours.
I rate her above most other players of her age.
She's not above lying when it suits her.
He's above suspicion (= he is completely trusted).
I couldn't hear her above the noise of the traffic.
Above all, keep in touch.
This case emphasizes / highlights the importance of honest communication between managers and employees.
Effective communication skills are essential / crucial / vital.
It should be noted that this study considers only verbal communication. Non-verbal communication is not dealt with here.
It is important to remember that / An important point to remember is that non-verbal communication plays a key role in getting your message across.
Communication is not only about the words you use but also your body language and, especially / above all, the effectiveness with which you listen.
I would like to draw attention to the role of listening in effective communication.
Choose your words carefully: in particular, avoid confusing and ambiguous language.
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, you must learn to listen as well as to speak.
There are other factors over and above those we have discussed.
Put it on the shelf above.
Seen from above the cars looked tiny.
They were acting on instructions from above (= from sb in a higher position of authority).
increases of 5% and above
A score of 70 or above will get you an 'A'.
children aged 12 and above
As was stated above…
See above, page 97.
Please write to us at the above address.
Please notify us if the above is not correct.
All the above (= people mentioned above) have passed the exam.
Don't worry; the deal was completely above board.
above-the-fold images
The company logo must be placed in an above-the-fold position.
Your ad will be placed above the fold for prominent exposure.
Nobody who was near the scene of the crime is above suspicion.
He suffered cuts and abrasions to the face.
Diamonds have extreme resistance to abrasion.
abrasive kitchen cleaners
cycling two abreast
A police car drew abreast of us and signalled us to stop.
It is almost impossible to keep abreast of all the latest developments in computing.
an abridged edition/version
The choice of players for the team seemed completely arbitrary.
He makes unpredictable, arbitrary decisions.
the arbitrary powers of officials
The leaders of the groups were chosen arbitrarily.
to be/go/travel/live abroad
She worked abroad for a year.
imports of cheap food from abroad
He was famous, both at home and abroad (= in his own country and in other countries).
There was news abroad that a change was coming.
an abrupt change/halt/departure
an abrupt manner
She was very abrupt with me in our meeting.
The decision was made in my absence (= while I was not there).
We did not receive any news during his long absence.
absence from work
repeated absences from school
The case was dismissed in the absence of any definite proof.
the absence of any women on the board of directors
When it came to cleaning up afterwards, Anne was conspicuous by her absence.
He absconded with the company funds.
to be absent from work
Love was totally absent from his childhood.
an absent expression
He had absented himself from the office for the day.
He nodded absently, his attention absorbed by the screen.
a class for absolute beginners
absolute confidence/trust/silence/truth
'You're wrong,' she said with absolute certainty.
There's absolute rubbish on television tonight.
He must earn an absolute fortune.
There was no absolute proof.
He taught us that the laws of physics were absolute.
The divorce became absolute last week.
absolute power/authority
an absolute ruler/monarchy (= one with no limit to their power)
Although prices are falling in absolute terms, energy is still expensive.
Beauty cannot be measured by any absolute standard.
Right and wrong are, for her, moral absolutes.
You're absolutely right.
He made it absolutely clear.
She did absolutely no work.
There's absolutely nothing more the doctors can do.
I was absolutely furious with him.
She absolutely adores you.
He's an absolutely brilliant cook.
'They could have told us, couldn't they?' 'Absolutely!'
'Can we leave a little early?' 'Absolutely!'
'Was it any good?' 'No, absolutely not.'
The court absolved him of all responsibility for the accident.
I absolve you from all your sins.
Plants absorb carbon dioxide from the air.
The cream is easily absorbed into the skin.
The country simply cannot absorb this influx of refugees.
The surrounding small towns have been absorbed into the city.
It's a lot of information to absorb all at once.
This work had absorbed him for several years.
Black walls absorb a lot of heat during the day.
This tennis racket absorbs shock on impact.
The new proposals would absorb $80 billion of the federal budget.
The company is unable to absorb such huge losses.
absorbable gases
absorbent paper/materials
She seemed totally absorbed in her book.
an absorbing book/game
That's an interesting question, Daniel.
The exhibition tells the fascinating story of the steam age.
Her latest book makes compelling reading.
Thank you for a most stimulating discussion.
His books are always so gripping.
Chess can be an extremely absorbing game.
Vitamin D is necessary to aid the absorption of calcium from food.
the absorption of immigrants into the host country
His work suffered because of his total absorption in sport.
Ten people voted in favour, five against and two abstained.
to abstain from alcohol/sex/drugs
The workers who abstained from work yesterday have been suspended.
The voting was 15 in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions.
total abstinence from strong drink
abstract knowledge/principles
The research shows that pre-school children are capable of thinking in abstract terms.
We may talk of beautiful things but beauty itself is abstract.
She abstracted the main points from the argument.
a plan to abstract 8 million gallons of water from the river
abstract expressionists like Jackson Pollock
abstract expressionist art
water abstraction from rivers
an abstruse argument
That uniform makes the guards look absurd.
Of course it's not true, what an absurd idea.
He has a good sense of the absurd.
It was only later that she could see the absurdity of the situation.
The paintings were sold for absurdly high prices.
absurdist literature
Fruit and vegetables grew in abundance on the island.
Fish are abundant in the lake.
We have abundant evidence to prove his guilt.
She made her wishes abundantly clear.
Calcium is found most abundantly in milk.
alcohol/drug/solvent abuse
The system of paying cash bonuses is open to abuse (= might be used in the wrong way).
He was arrested on charges of corruption and abuse of power.
What she did was an abuse of her position as manager.
child abuse
sexual abuse
reported abuses by the secret police
She suffered years of physical abuse.
to scream/hurl/shout abuse
a stream/torrent of abuse
to abuse alcohol/drugs
He systematically abused his body with heroin and cocaine.
She abused her position as principal by giving jobs to her friends.
He felt they had abused his trust by talking about him to the press (= tricked him, although he had trusted them).
All the children had been physically and emotionally abused.
He had abused his own daughter.
The boy had been sexually abused.
The referee had been threatened and abused.
a drug abuser
a child abuser
abusive language/remarks
He became abusive when he was drunk.
an abusive relationship
His land abuts onto a road.
Ahead of them was a gaping abyss.
(figurative) an abyss of ignorance/despair/loneliness
(figurative) The country is stepping back from the edge of an abyss.
the Royal Academy of Music
a police/military academy
the Royal Academy of Arts
The students return in October for the start of the new academic year.
high/low academic standards
an academic career
academic subjects/qualifications
She wasn't very academic and hated school.
It is a purely academic question.
The whole thing's academic now—we can't win anyway.
You have to do well academically to get into medical school.
açai berries
He acceded to demands for his resignation.
Queen Victoria acceded to the throne in 1837.
Inflation continues to accelerate.
Exposure to the sun can accelerate the ageing process.
The runners accelerated smoothly around the bend.
The car accelerated to overtake me.
an acceleration in the rate of economic growth
a car with good acceleration
a northern/Dublin/Indian/Scottish accent
a strong/broad accent (= one that is very noticeable)
She spoke English with an accent.
In 'today' the accent is on the second syllable.
Canapé has an accent on the 'e'.
In all our products the accent is on quality.
He spoke heavily accented English.
accented vowels/syllables
accented characters
He asked me to marry him and I accepted.
Please accept our sincere apologies.
It was pouring with rain so I accepted his offer of a lift.
She's decided not to accept the job.
He is charged with accepting bribes from a firm of suppliers.
She said she'd accept $15 for it.
This machine only accepts coins.
Will you accept a cheque?
My article has been accepted for publication.
They accepted the court's decision.
He accepted all the changes we proposed.
She won't accept advice from anyone.
He agreed to let me go early.
The committee unanimously approved the plan.
She just goes along with everything he suggests.
She finally consented to answer our questions.
He accepts full responsibility for what happened.
You have to accept the consequences of your actions.
I don't accept his version of events.
Can we accept his account as the true version?
I accept that this will not be popular.
It is generally accepted that people are motivated by success.
The workforce is generally accepted to have the best conditions in Europe.
You just have to accept the fact that we're never going to be rich.
Nothing will change as long as the workers continue to accept these appalling conditions.
They accept the risks as part of the job.
He just refused to accept that his father was no longer there.
It may take years to be completely accepted by the local community.
She had never been accepted into what was essentially a man's world.
He never really accepted her as his own child.
The college he applied to has accepted him.
She was disappointed not to be accepted into the club.
The landlord was willing to accept us as tenants.
She was accepted to study music.
Children must learn socially acceptable behaviour.
For this course a pass in English at grade B is acceptable.
Air pollution in the city had reached four times the acceptable levels.
We want a political solution that is acceptable to all parties.
The food was acceptable, but no more.
Please confirm your acceptance of this offer in writing.
He made a short acceptance speech/speech of acceptance.
Invitations have been sent out and 80 acceptances have already been received.
The new laws have gained widespread acceptance.
Your acceptance into the insurance plan is guaranteed.
Social acceptance is important for most young people.
acceptance of death/suffering
The police gained access through a broken window.
The only access to the farmhouse is across the fields.
Disabled visitors are welcome; there is good wheelchair access to most facilities.
Students must have access to good resources.
You need a password to get access to the computer system.
access to confidential information
Journalists were denied access to the President.
Many divorced fathers only have access to their children at weekends (= they are allowed by law to see them only at weekends).
The loft can be accessed by a ladder.
bicycle accessories
a range of furnishings and accessories for the home
an accessory before/after the fact (= before/after the crime was committed)
He was charged with being an accessory to murder.
the accessory muscles of respiration
The remote desert area is accessible only by helicopter.
These documents are not accessible to the public.
accessible toilets for wheelchair users
Her poetry is always very accessible.
a programme making science more accessible to young people
the accession of Queen Victoria to the throne
the accession of new member states to the EU
the new accession states of the EU
a car/road/traffic accident
He was killed in an accident.
One in seven accidents is caused by sleepy drivers.
The accident happened at 3 p.m.
to have an accident
a serious/minor accident
a fatal accident (= in which sb is killed)
accidents in the home
a climbing/riding accident
Take out accident insurance before you go on your trip.
I didn't mean to break it— it was an accident.
Their early arrival was just an accident.
It is no accident that men fill most of the top jobs in nursing.
an accident of birth/fate/history (= describing facts and events that are due to chance or circumstances)
This ring has always brought me good luck.
The results could simply be due to chance.
They met through a series of strange coincidences.
Fate decreed that she would never reach America.
I believe there's some force guiding us—call it God, destiny or fate.
We met by accident at the airport.
Helen got into acting purely by accident.
the hospital accident and emergency department
a verdict of accidental death
I didn't think our meeting was accidental—he must have known I would be there.
As I turned around, I accidentally hit him in the face.
The damage couldn't have been caused accidentally.
a highly/widely acclaimed performance
The work was acclaimed as a masterpiece.
international/popular/critical acclaim
The decision was taken by acclamation.
Arrive two days early in order to acclimatize.
She was fine once she had acclimatized herself to the cold.
The hotel can accommodate up to 500 guests.
Over 70 minutes of music can be accommodated on one CD.
Our proposal tries to accommodate the special needs of minority groups.
I have accommodated the press a great deal, giving numerous interviews.
I needed to accommodate to the new schedule.
rented/temporary/furnished accommodation
Hotel accommodation is included in the price of your holiday.
The building plans include much needed new office accommodation.
First-class accommodation is available on all flights.
More and more travelers are looking for bed and breakfast accommodations in private homes.
They were forced to reach an accommodation with the rebels.
His wife accompanied him on the trip.
strong winds accompanied by heavy rain
The curator of the exhibition also wrote the accompanying catalogue.
The singer was accompanied on the piano by her sister.
traditional songs with piano accompaniment
The wine makes a good accompaniment to fish dishes.
High blood pressure is a common accompaniment to this disease.
They performed to the accompaniment of guitars.
She made her speech to the accompaniment of loud laughter.
The first part of the plan has been safely accomplished.
I don't feel I've accomplished very much today.
That's it. Mission accomplished (= we have done what we aimed to do).
an accomplished artist/actor/chef
She was an elegant and accomplished woman.
It was one of the President's greatest accomplishments.
Drawing and singing were among her many accomplishments.
a poet of rare accomplishment
Money will be crucial to the accomplishment of our objectives.
The two sides signed a peace accord last July.
This action would not be in accord with our policy.
He came back of his own accord.
The symptoms will clear up of their own accord.
Our society accords great importance to the family.
Our society accords the family great importance.
These results accord closely with our predictions.
in accordance with legal requirements
According to Mick, it's a great movie.
You've been absent six times according to our records.
Photography is, according to Vidal, the art form of untalented people.
For Vidal, photography is the art form of untalented people.
His view is that photography is not art but merely the mechanical reproduction of images.
Smith takes the view that photography is both an art and a science.
In Brown's view, photography should be treated as a legitimate art in its own right.
James is of the opinion that a good painter can always be a good photographer if he or she so decides.
Emerson believed that a photograph should only reflect what the human eye can see.
This bar chart illustrates how many journeys people made on public transport over a three-month period.
This table compares bus, train, and taxi use between April and June.
The results are shown in the chart below.
In this pie chart, the survey results are broken down by age.
This pie chart breaks down the survey results by age.
As can be seen from these results, younger people use buses more than older people.
According to these figures, bus travel accounts for 60% of public transport use.
From the data in the above graph, it is apparent that buses are the most widely used form of public transport.
The work was done according to her instructions.
Everything went according to plan.
The salary will be fixed according to qualifications and experience.
We have to discover his plans and act accordingly.
The cost of materials rose sharply last year. Accordingly, we were forced to increase our prices.
She was accosted in the street by a complete stranger.
I don't have a bank account.
to have an account at/with a bank
to open/close an account
What's your account number please?
I paid the cheque into my savings account.
a joint account (= one in the name of more than one person)
to do the accounts
the accounts department
Put it on my account please.
We have accounts with most of our suppliers.
the gas bill
The builders sent an invoice for £250.
Can I have the check, please?
The agency has lost several of its most important accounts.
an Internet/email account
She gave the police a full account of the incident.
Are these newspaper reports true?
It was many years before the full story was made public.
the front-page story
She gave us her version of what had happened that day.
the Biblical account of the creation of the world
I've never been there, but it's a lovely place, by all accounts.
By his own account he had an unhappy childhood.
The team gave a good account of themselves in the match.
Please don't change your plans on my account.
She retired early on account of ill health.
The number of people with diabetes is growing, partly because of an increase in levels of obesity.
The number of overweight children has increased dramatically in recent years, largely as a result of changes in diet and lifestyle.
The increase in childhood obesity is largely due to / the result of changes in lifestyle and diet over the last twenty years.
Many obese children are bullied at school on account of their weight.
Part of the problem with treating childhood obesity stems from the fact that parents do not always recognize that their children are obese.
Childhood obesity may be caused by genetic factors, as well as environmental ones.
On no account should the house be left unlocked.
In 2012 Smith set up in business on his own account.
No one sent me. I am here on my own account.
Weather conditions were poor, but he did not delay his departure on that account.
The company takes account of environmental issues wherever possible.
Coursework is taken into account as well as exam results.
The defendant asked for a number of other offences to be taken into account.
'Who would do such a thing?' 'Maybe someone with an old score to settle.'
In English law a person is accounted innocent until they are proved guilty.
The event was accounted a success.
She thinks he's wonderful—oh well, there's no accounting for taste.
The poor weather may have accounted for the small crowd.
Oh well, that accounts for it (= I understand now why it happened).
How do you account for the show's success?
The Japanese market accounts for 35% of the company's revenue.
According to this pie chart, a third of students' leisure time is spent watching TV.
One in five hours is/are spent socializing.
Socializing accounts for / makes up / comprises about 20% of leisure time.
Students spend twice as much time playing computer games as doing sport.
Three times as many hours are spent playing computer games as reading.
The figure for playing computer games is three times higher than the figure for reading.
The largest proportion of time is spent playing computer games.
All passengers have now been accounted for.
Our anti-aircraft guns accounted for five enemy bombers.
We have to account for every penny we spend on business trips.
Politicians are ultimately accountable to the voters.
Someone must be held accountable for the killings.
the accountability of a company's directors to the shareholders
a career in accounting
accounting methods
The discovery of distillation is usually accredited to the Arabs of the 11th century.
The Arabs are usually accredited with the discovery of distillation.
He was accredited to Madrid.
Institutions that do not meet the standards will not be accredited for teacher training.
a letter of accreditation
our accredited representative
Only accredited journalists were allowed entry.
a fully accredited school/university/course
It's too wide. We can't swim across.
The yard measures about 50 feet across.
When my name was called, he looked across at me.
There's a school just across from our house.
I can't do 3 across.
He walked across the field.
I drew a line across the page.
A grin spread across her face.
Where's the nearest bridge across the river?
There's a bank right across the street.
He hit him across the face.
It's too tight across the back.
Her family is scattered across the country.
This view is common across all sections of the community.
Interest will accrue if you keep your money in a savings account.
economic benefits accruing to the country from tourism
The firm had accrued debts of over $6m.
the accrual of interest
I seem to have accumulated a lot of books.
By investing wisely she accumulated a fortune.
We've been collecting data from various sources.
Dirt had collected in the corners of the room.
to collect stamps
I waited while he gathered up his papers.
Detectives have spent months gathering evidence.
I seem to have accumulated a lot of books.
Debts began to accumulate.
He amassed a fortune from silver mining.
the accumulation of wealth
an accumulation of toxic chemicals
the accumulative effects of pollution
They questioned the accuracy of the information in the file.
She hits the ball with great accuracy.
an accurate description/account/calculation
accurate information/data
Accurate records must be kept.
a highly accurate electronic compass
accurate to within 3 mm
My watch is not very accurate.
The article accurately reflects public opinion.
You need to hit the ball accurately.
I don't want to make an accusation until I have some proof.
There was a hint of accusation in her voice.
accusations of corruption/cruelty/racism
No one believed her wild accusations against her husband.
He denied the accusation that he had ignored the problems.
In the sentence, 'I saw him today', the word 'him' is in the accusative.
to accuse sb of murder/theft
She accused him of lying.
The government was accused of incompetence.
(formal) They stand accused of crimes against humanity.
The accused was found innocent.
All the accused have pleaded guilty.
an accusing look/finger/tone
Her accusing eyes were fixed on him.
It took him a while to accustom himself to the idea.
to become/get accustomed to sth
My eyes slowly grew accustomed to the dark.
She was a person accustomed to having eight hours' sleep a night.
He took his accustomed seat by the fire.
the ace of spades/hearts/diamonds/clubs
a soccer/flying ace
an ace marksman
He served 20 aces in the match.
We came within an ace of victory.
We had an ace time.
He aced all his tests.
The letter was written in her usual acerbic style.
It can be difficult to ascertain the facts.
I ascertained that the driver was not badly hurt.
It should be ascertained that the plans comply with the law.
The police are trying to ascertain what really happened.
Could you ascertain whether she will be coming to the meeting?
It must be ascertained if the land is still owned by the government.
Achcha! We'll meet at eight.
I'm aching all over.
Her eyes ached from lack of sleep.
(figurative) It makes my heart ache (= it makes me sad) to see her suffer.
My feet hurt.
Ouch! That hurt!
Our eyes were burning from the chemicals in the air.
My eyes were stinging from the smoke.
The cold air made her face tingle.
I itch all over.
Does the rash itch?
His head throbbed painfully.
I was aching for home.
He ached to see her.
Mummy, I've got a tummy ache.
Muscular aches and pains can be soothed by a relaxing massage.
(figurative) an ache in my heart (= a continuous sad feeling)
He had finally achieved success.
They could not achieve their target of less than 3% inflation.
I haven't achieved very much today.
All you've achieved is to upset my parents.
Their background gives them little chance of achieving at school.
Profits of $20m look achievable.
achievable goals
the greatest scientific achievement of the decade
It was a remarkable achievement for such a young player.
They were proud of their children's achievements.
the need to raise standards of achievement in education
Even a small success gives you a sense of achievement (= a feeling of pride).
a low achiever
an achingly beautiful song
I feel all achy.
an achy back
Rye is tolerant of poor, acid soils.
acid fruit
the pungent smell of burning rubber
Too much pulp produces a sour wine.
acrid smoke from burning tyres
The cheese has a distinctively sharp taste.
an acid wit
The acid test of a good driver is whether he or she remains calm in an emergency.
Some fruit juices are very acidic.
acidic soil
'Thanks for nothing,' she said acidly.
She refuses to acknowledge the need for reform.
a generally acknowledged fact
I did not acknowledge that he had done anything wrong.
It is generally acknowledged to be true.
It was a stupid thing to do, I admit.
They recognized the need to take the problem seriously.
He was forced to concede (that) there might be difficulties.
She was reluctant to confess her ignorance.
The country acknowledged his claim to the throne.
He is widely acknowledged as the best player in the world.
He is widely acknowledged to be the best player in the world.
All applications will be acknowledged.
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter.
I was standing right next to her, but she didn't even acknowledge me.
I gratefully acknowledge financial support from several local businesses.
This report is an acknowledgement of the size of the problem.
She gave me a smile of acknowledgement (= showed that she had seen and recognized me).
The flowers were a small acknowledgement of your kindness.
I was sent a free copy in acknowledgement of my contribution.
I didn't receive an acknowledgement of my application.
to suffer from/have acne
The acoustics of the new concert hall are excellent.
Please acquaint me with the facts of the case.
You will first need to acquaint yourself with the filing system.
Claire has a wide circle of friends and acquaintances.
He's just a business acquaintance.
He hoped their acquaintance would develop further.
I had little acquaintance with modern poetry.
I am delighted to make your acquaintance, Mrs Baker.
I made the acquaintance of several musicians around that time.
No one else of my acquaintance was as rich or successful.
Even on first acquaintance it was clear that he was not 'the right type'.
It was unfair to judge her on such a brief acquaintanceship.
The students are already acquainted with the work of Shakespeare.
Employees should be fully acquainted with emergency procedures.
We got acquainted at the conference (= met and started to get to know each other).
I am well acquainted with her family.
Senior government figures must have acquiesced in the cover-up.
There was general acquiescence in the UN sanctions.
She has acquired a good knowledge of English.
He has acquired a reputation for dishonesty.
I have recently acquired a taste for olives.
The company has just acquired new premises.
I've suddenly acquired a stepbrother.
Abstract art is an acquired taste.
theories of child language acquisition
His latest acquisition is a racehorse.
They have made acquisitions in several EU countries.
the acquisition of shares by employees
The jury acquitted him of murder.
He acquitted himself brilliantly in the exams.
The case resulted in an acquittal.
The jury voted for acquittal.
3 000 acres of parkland
a three-acre wood
(informal) Each house has acres of space around it (= a lot of space).
acrid smoke from burning tyres
His parents went through an acrimonious divorce.
The dispute was settled without acrimony.
acrobatic feats
an acrobatic dancer
acrobatics on the high wire
(figurative) vocal acrobatics (= performing skilfully with the voice when singing)
riding across country
The industry needs more investment across the board.
an across-the-board wage increase
Music blared from the open window of the house across the way.
acrylic paints/fibres
an acrylic sweater
a criminal act
an act of kindness
acts of terrorism
The murder was the act of a psychopath.
Her quick action saved the child's life.
Tougher measures against racism are needed.
This was a first step towards a united Europe.
a heroic act of bravery
his heroic actions/acts during the war
They are waiting for the results of the opinion polls before deciding their next move.
an Act of Congress
the Care Act 2014
Don't take her seriously—it's all an act.
You could tell she was just putting on an act.
a play in five acts
The hero dies in Act 5, Scene 3.
a circus/comedy/magic act
They were one of rock's most impressive live acts.
He needs to get his act together if he's going to pass.
He was caught in the act of stealing a car.
He cleaned up his act and came off drugs.
It is vital that we act to stop the destruction of the rainforests.
The girl's life was saved because the doctors acted so promptly.
He claims he acted in self-defence.
John's been acting very strangely lately.
Stop acting like spoilt children!
She was acting as if she'd seen a ghost.
She was acting like she'd seen a ghost.
He's been acting the devoted husband all day.
I decided to act dumb.
Have you ever acted?
Most of the cast act well.
Who's acting (the part of) Hamlet?
The play was well acted.
Can you act as interpreter?
hormones in the brain that act like natural painkillers
Alcohol acts quickly on the brain.
Quit playing the fool and get some work done!
Acting on information from a member of the public, the police raided the club.
Why didn't you act on her suggestion?
The ritual of the party conference is acted out in the same way every year.
The children started to act out the whole incident.
She acted out the role of the wronged lover.
The kids started acting up.
How long has your ankle been acting up?
the acting manager
The time has come for action if these beautiful animals are to survive.
Firefighters took action immediately to stop the blaze spreading.
What is the best course of action in the circumstances?
She began to explain her plan of action to the group.
Each of us must take responsibility for our own actions.
A libel action is being brought against the magazine that published the article.
He is considering taking legal action against the hospital.
military action
soldiers killed in action
The action takes place in France.
I like films with plenty of action.
New York is where the action is.
the action of sunlight on the skin
a study of the action of the liver
Just press the button to see your favourite character in action.
I've yet to see all the players in action.
The new plan for traffic control is being put into action on an experimental basis.
Jon will be out of action for weeks with a broken leg.
The photocopier is out of action today.
'Let's go!' he said, springing into action.
The town springs into life (= becomes busy) during the carnival.
Your request will be actioned.
the Child Poverty Action Group
The illness damaged his Action Man image.
It was an action replay of the problems of his first marriage.
an action-packed weekend
The research is aimed at getting actionable solutions.
The burglar alarm is activated by movement.
The gene is activated by a specific protein.
Although he's nearly 80, he is still very active.
They were both politically active.
active involvement/participation/support/resistance
She takes an active part in school life.
The parents were active in campaigning against cuts to the education budget.
They took active steps to prevent the spread of the disease.
sexually active teenagers
animals that are active only at night
The virus is still active in the blood.
an active volcano (= likely to erupt )
That child has a very active imagination.
What is the active ingredient in aspirin?
In 'He was driving the car', the verb is active.
Your proposal is being actively considered.
She was actively looking for a job.
Please email us to be removed from our active list of blood donors.
troops on active service
gay activists
economic activity
The streets were noisy and full of activity.
Muscles contract and relax during physical activity.
leisure/outdoor/classroom activities
The club provides a wide variety of activities including tennis, swimming and squash.
illegal/criminal activities
What were his actual words?
The actual cost was higher than we expected.
James looks younger than his wife but in actual fact (= really) he is five years older.
I need the actual figures, not an estimate.
How long have you been in your present job?
The factory cannot continue its current level of production.
The wedding preparations take weeks but the actual ceremony takes less than an hour.
He finally actualized his dream.
The building looked as impressive in actuality as it did in photographs.
the grim actualities of prison life
What did she actually say?
It's not actually raining now.
That's the only reason I'm actually going.
There are lots of people there who can actually help you.
I didn't want to say anything without actually reading the letter first.
It was actually quite fun after all.
The food was not actually all that expensive.
Our turnover actually increased last year.
We're not American, actually. We're Canadian.
Actually, it would be much more sensible to do it later.
They're not married, actually.
Actually, I'll be a bit late home.
Actually, I'm busy at the moment—can I call you back?
He was actuated entirely by malice.
business/commercial/financial acumen
There is an acute shortage of water.
acute pain
the world's acute environmental problems
Competition for jobs is acute.
acute appendicitis
Dogs have an acute sense of smell.
He is an acute observer of the social scene.
Her judgement is acute.
I am acutely aware of the difficulties we face.
acutely embarrassed
acutely ill
We put an ad in the local paper.
an ad for a new chocolate bar
Put an advertisement in the local paper to sell your car.
Dirty streets are no advertisement for a prosperous society.
She works in publicity.
There has been a lot of advance publicity for her new film.
We put an ad in the local paper.
a special promotion of local products
She works in sales and promotion.
in (the year) AD 55
in 55 AD
in the fifth century AD
an ad hoc meeting to deal with the problem
The meetings will be held on an ad hoc basis.
an ad hominem attack
You cannot stay here ad infinitum without paying rent.
The problem would be repeated ad infinitum.
She abandoned her script and began ad-libbing.
I lost my notes and had to ad-lib the whole speech.
The speech was full of ad libs.
an ad lib speech
She delivered her lines ad lib.
Sports commentators repeat the same phrases ad nauseam.
Eva was adamant that she would not come.
His family were adamantly opposed to the marriage.
These styles can be adapted to suit individual tastes.
Most of these tools have been specially adapted for use by disabled people.
It's amazing how soon you adapt.
The organisms were forced to adapt in order to survive.
We have had to adapt quickly to the new system.
A large organization can be slow to adapt to change.
It took him a while to adapt himself to his new surroundings.
Three of her novels have been adapted for television.
Older workers can be as adaptable and quick to learn as anyone else.
Successful businesses are highly adaptable to economic change.
a screen adaptation of Shakespeare's 'Macbeth'
the adaptation of desert species to the hot conditions
Adaptive learning systems offer students customized learning experiences according to their needs and capabilities.
Next add the flour.
The juice contains no added sugar.
The plan has the added (= extra) advantage of bringing employment to rural areas.
A new wing was added to the building.
Shall I add your name to the list?
Add 9 to the total.
If you add all these amounts together you get a huge figure.
'And don't be late,' she added.
I have nothing to add to my earlier statement.
He added that they would return a week later.
The suite will add a touch of class to your bedroom.
Add to this the excellent service and you can see why it's the most popular hotel on the island.
Remember to add in the cost of drinks.
A service charge of 15% was added on to the bill.
The bad weather only added to our difficulties.
The house has been added to (= new rooms, etc. have been built on to it) from time to time.
His story just doesn't add up.
When you're feeding a family of six the bills soon add up.
The waiter can't add up.
Add up all the money I owe you.
The numbers add up to exactly 100.
These clues don't really add up to very much (= give us very little information).
add-in software
The company offers scuba-diving as an add-on to the basic holiday price.
add-on software (= added to a computer)
a heroin/drug/nicotine addict
a video game addict
to become addicted to drugs/gambling
He's addicted to computer games.
cocaine addiction
He is now fighting his addiction to alcohol.
Heroin is highly addictive.
I find jogging very addictive.
an email/IP addy
children learning addition and subtraction
the latest addition to our range of cars
an addition to the family (= another child)
Pasta's basic ingredients are flour and water, sometimes with the addition of eggs or oil.
architects who specialize in home additions
In addition to these arrangements, extra ambulances will be on duty until midnight.
There is, in addition, one further point to make.
Bilingual children do better in IQ tests than children who speak only one language. In addition / What is more, they seem to find it easier to learn third or even fourth languages.
Learning another language not only improves children's job prospects in later life, but also boosts their self-esteem.
Teaching children a second language improves their job prospects in later life. Other benefits include increased self-esteem and greater tolerance of other cultures.
Another / One further / One additional reason for encouraging bilingual education is that it boosts children's self-esteem.
Studies suggest that bilingual children find it easier to learn additional languages. There is, moreover, increasing evidence that bilingual children perform better across a range of school subjects, not just foreign languages.
His claim that children find bilingual education confusing is based on very little evidence. Moreover, the evidence he does provide is seriously flawed.
Research has shown that first-language development is not impeded by exposure to a second language. Furthermore, there is no evidence to support the claim that children find bilingual education confusing.
additional resources/funds/security
The government provided an additional £25 million to expand the service.
Additionally, the bus service will run on Sundays, every two hours.
food additives
additive-free orange juice
chemical additives in petrol
Being in love must have addled your brain.
his addled brain
Hospital admission is not necessary in most cases.
Hospital admissions for asthma attacks have doubled.
the university admissions policy/office
They tried to get into the club but were refused admission.
She failed to gain admission to the university of her choice.
countries applying for admission to the European Union
Last admissions to the park are at 4 p.m.
He is a thief by his own admission (= he has admitted it).
an admission of guilt/failure/defeat
The minister's resignation was an admission that she had lied.
admission charges/prices
£5 admission
What's the admission?
a campaign to encourage childless couples to adopt
to adopt a child
She was forced to have her baby adopted.
All three teams adopted different approaches to the problem.
to adopt a resolution
The council is expected to adopt the new policy at its next meeting.
to adopt a name/title/language
Early Christians in Europe adopted many of the practices of the older, pagan religions.
He adopted an air of indifference.
She was adopted as parliamentary candidate for Wood Green.
Danny is their adopted son.
Let's start with the more easily addressable issues.
addressable memory
What's your name and address?
I'll give you my address and phone number.
Is that your home address?
Please note my change of address.
Police found him at an address (= a house or flat/apartment) in West London.
people of no fixed address (= with no permanent home)
What's your email address?
The project has a new web address.
tonight's televised presidential address
Several people made speeches at the wedding.
a lecture on the Roman army
a course/series of lectures
a televised presidential address
She gave an interesting talk on her visit to China.
to preach a sermon
The letter was correctly addressed, but delivered to the wrong house.
Address your application to the Personnel Manager.
to address a meeting
I was surprised when he addressed me in English.
Any questions should be addressed to your teacher.
The judge should be addressed as 'Your Honour'.
Your essay does not address the real issues.
We must address ourselves to the problem of traffic pollution.
Several factors have been adduced to explain the fall in the birth rate.
an adequate supply of hot water
The room was small but adequate.
There is a lack of adequate provision for disabled students.
He didn't give an adequate answer to the question.
The space available is not adequate for our needs.
training that is adequate to meet the future needs of industry
The adequacy of the security arrangements has been questioned.
Are you adequately insured?
Once in the bloodstream, the bacteria adhere to the surface of the red cells.
For ten months he adhered to a strict no-fat low-salt diet.
She adheres to teaching methods she learned over 30 years ago.
strict adherence to the rules
adhesive tape
I bid you adieu.
The planes landed on adjacent runways.
Our farm land was adjacent to the river.
an adjectival phrase
In 'bread knife', the word 'bread' is used adjectivally.
A barn adjoins the farmhouse.
They stayed in adjoining rooms.
We'll have more space if we knock down the adjoining wall (= the wall between two rooms).
The court adjourned for lunch.
The trial has been adjourned until next week.
The judge granted us a short adjournment.
The company was adjudged bankrupt.
The tour was adjudged a success.
The reforms were generally adjudged to have failed.
A special subcommittee adjudicates on planning applications.
Their purpose is to adjudicate disputes between employers and employees.
Who is adjudicating at this year's contest?
The case was referred to a higher court for adjudication.
You may refer your complaint to an independent adjudicator.
In 'She went home yesterday' and 'He ran away in a panic', 'yesterday' and 'in a panic' are adjuncts.
The memory expansion cards are useful adjuncts to the computer.
He adjured them to tell the truth.
Watch out for sharp bends and adjust your speed accordingly.
This button is for adjusting the volume.
Adjust your language to the age of your audience.
They'll be fine—they just need time to adjust.
After a while his eyes adjusted to the dark.
It took her a while to adjust to living alone.
You'll quickly adjust yourself to student life.
He smoothed his hair and adjusted his tie.
adjustable seat belts
The height of the bicycle seat is adjustable.
I've made a few adjustments to the design.
Some adjustment of the lens may be necessary.
She went through a period of emotional adjustment after her marriage broke up.
to introduce/propose/table an amendment (= to suggest it)
Parliament passed the bill without further amendment.
She made several minor amendments to her essay.
The 19th Amendment gave women the right to vote.
a few admin problems
She works in admin.
Administration costs are passed on to the customer.
the day-to-day administration of a company
I work in the Sales Administration department.
the administration of justice
university administrations
the Obama administration
Successive administrations have failed to solve the country's economic problems.
the administration of antibiotics
If it cannot find extra funds, the company will go into administration.
to administer a charity/fund/school
The pension funds are administered by commercial banks.
to administer justice/the law
The questionnaire was administered by trained interviewers.
The teacher has the authority to administer punishment.
Police believe his wife could not have administered the poison.
The dose was administered to the child intravenously.
He administered a severe blow to his opponent's head.
an administrative job/assistant/error
a hospital administrator
For an application form, please contact our administrator.
Her dedication to her work was admirable.
He made his points with admirable clarity.
Joe coped admirably with a difficult situation.
The admiral visited the ships under his command.
Admiral Lord Nelson
to watch/gaze in admiration
I have great admiration for her as a writer.
I really admire your enthusiasm.
You have to admire the way he handled the situation.
The school is widely admired for its excellent teaching.
I don't agree with her, but I admire her for sticking to her principles.
He stood back to admire his handiwork.
She was used to receiving admiring glances from men.
He is a great admirer of Picasso's early paintings.
She never married but had many admirers.
'I'm very nervous,' she admitted reluctantly.
Don't be afraid to admit to your mistakes.
She admits to being strict with her children.
He admitted all his mistakes.
She stubbornly refuses to admit the truth.
Why don't you just admit defeat (= recognize that you cannot do sth) and let someone else try?
Admit it! You were terrified!
They freely admit (that) they still have a lot to learn.
You must admit that it all sounds very strange.
I couldn't admit to my parents that I was finding the course difficult.
It was generally admitted that the government had acted too quickly.
The appointment is now generally admitted to have been a mistake.
He refused to admit to the other charges.
She admitted to having stolen the car.
She admitted theft.
He refused to admit his guilt.
She admitted having driven the car without insurance.
Each ticket admits one adult.
You will not be admitted to the theatre after the performance has started.
The narrow windows admit little light into the room.
The society admits all US citizens over 21.
Women were only admitted into the club last year.
Two crash victims were admitted to the local hospital.
Hundreds of people were unable to gain admittance to the hall.
Admittedly, it is rather expensive but you don't need to use much.
an admixture of aggression and creativity
a French-speaking region with an admixture of German speakers
She was admonished for chewing gum in class.
A warning voice admonished him not to let this happen.
bread and butter
a table, two chairs and a desk
Sue and I left early.
Do it slowly and carefully.
Can he read and write?
I cooked lunch. And I made a cake. (= you are emphasizing how much you have done)
5 and 5 makes 10.
What's 47 and 16?
She came in and took her coat off.
Go and get me a pen please.
I'll come and see you soon.
We stopped and bought some bread.
Try and finish quickly.
'We talked for hours.' 'And what did you decide?'
Miss another class and you'll fail.
He tried and tried but without success.
The pain got worse and worse.
I like city life but there are cities and cities.
adolescents between the ages of 13 and 18 and the problems they face
adolescent boys/girls/experiences
early/late adopters of social media
She put the baby up for adoption.
the adoption of new technology
his adoption as the Labour candidate
What an adorable child!
He gazed at her with pure adoration.
The painting is called 'Adoration of the Infant Christ'.
It's obvious that she adores him.
I love you.
She's nice. I like her.
I've always been very fond of your mother.
They are devoted to their children.
He cared for her more than she realized.
If he really cared for you, he wouldn't behave like that.
He dotes on his children.
I simply adore his music!
She adores working with children.
Do you like their new house?
I like to see them enjoying themselves.
He loved the way she smiled.
We were fond of the house and didn't want to leave.
I'm not keen on spicy food.
She's not keen on being told what to do.
Gold rings adorned his fingers.
(ironic) Graffiti adorned the walls.
The walls were adorned with paintings.
The children adorned themselves with flowers.
A plain necklace was her only adornment.
The excitement at the start of a race can really get the adrenaline flowing.
The survivors were adrift in a lifeboat for six days.
young people adrift in the big city
I nearly suffocated when the pipe on my breathing apparatus came adrift.
(figurative) She had been cut adrift from everything she had known.
(figurative) Our plans had gone badly adrift.
The team are now just six points adrift of the leaders.
(figurative) Without language human beings are cast adrift.
an adroit negotiator
The dye is adsorbed onto the fibre.
Children must be accompanied by an adult.
Why can't you two act like civilized adults?
The fish return to the river as adults in order to breed.
preparing young people for adult life
the adult population
adult monkeys
When my parents split up, it was all very adult and open.
an adult movie
He was accused of committing adultery.
an adulterous relationship
a child reaching adulthood
We feared that an advance on the capital would soon follow.
recent advances in medical science
We live in an age of rapid technological advance.
They offered an advance of £5 000 after the signing of the contract.
She asked for an advance on her salary.
He had made advances to one of his students.
Share prices showed significant advances.
a week/month/year in advance
It's cheaper if you book the tickets in advance.
People were evacuated from the coastal regions in advance of the hurricane.
Galileo's ideas were well in advance of the age in which he lived.
The troops were finally given the order to advance.
They had advanced 20 miles by nightfall.
the advancing Allied troops
The mob advanced on us, shouting angrily.
Our knowledge of the disease has advanced considerably over recent years.
This research has done much to advance our understanding of language learning.
Studying for new qualifications is one way of advancing your career.
They worked together to advance the cause of democracy.
We are willing to advance the money to you.
We will advance you the money.
The article advances a new theory to explain changes in the climate.
The date of the trial has been advanced by one week.
Users advance through the program by answering a series of questions.
This button advances the hours and the red one advances the minutes in the display.
Oil shares advanced amid economic recovery hopes.
Please give us advance warning of any changes.
We need advance notice of the numbers involved.
No advance booking is necessary on most departures.
advanced technology
advanced industrial societies
There were only three of us on the advanced course.
an advanced student of English
the advanced stages of the disease
He was a man of advanced years.
(humorous) Even at my advanced age I still know how to enjoy myself!
For this course, you need two GCE Advanced Level passes.
the advancement of knowledge/education/science
There are good opportunities for advancement if you have the right skills.
She is still very active, in spite of her advancing years.
a big/great/definite advantage
an unfair advantage (= sth that benefits you, but not your opponents)
She had the advantage of a good education.
You will be at an advantage (= have an advantage) in the interview if you have thought about the questions in advance.
Being tall gave him an advantage over the other players.
A small car has the added advantage of being cheaper to run.
One advantage of/One of the advantages of living in the country is the fresh air.
Each of these systems has its advantages and disadvantages.
Advantage Murray.
It would be to your advantage to attend this meeting.
Eventually, the new regulations will work to our advantage.
She took advantage of the children's absence to tidy their rooms.
We took full advantage of the hotel facilities.
He took advantage of my generosity (= for example, by taking more than I had intended to give).
The photograph showed him to advantage.
We aim to improve opportunities for the less advantaged in society.
A free trade agreement would be advantageous to both countries.
the advent of new technology
her adventures travelling in Africa
When you're a child, life is one big adventure.
adventure stories
a sense/spirit of adventure
For the more adventurous tourists, there are trips into the mountains with a local guide.
Many teachers would like to be more adventurous and creative.
The menu contained traditional favourites as well as more adventurous dishes.
an adventurous trip/lifestyle
In 'speak kindly', 'incredibly deep', 'just in time' and 'too quickly', 'kindly', 'incredibly', 'just' and 'too' are all adverbs.
'Very quickly indeed' is an adverbial phrase.
In 'come back', 'break down' and 'fall off', 'back', 'down' and 'off' are all adverbial particles.
the adversarial nature of the two-party system
an adversarial system of justice
adverse change/circumstances/weather conditions
Lack of money will have an adverse effect on our research programme.
They have attracted strong adverse criticism.
This drug is known to have adverse side effects.
Her health was adversely affected by the climate.
courage in the face of adversity
He overcame many personal adversities.
the adverts on television
When the adverts came on I got up to put the kettle on.
If you want to attract more customers, try advertising in the local paper.
The cruise was advertised as the 'journey of a lifetime'.
We are currently advertising for a new sales manager.
We advertised the concert quite widely.
I wouldn't advertise the fact that you don't have a work permit.
Dirty streets and homelessness are no advertisement for a prosperous society.
A good advertising campaign will increase our sales.
Cigarette advertising has been banned.
radio/TV advertising
Val works for an advertising agency (= a company that designs advertisements).
a career in advertising
advice on road safety
They give advice to people with HIV and AIDS.
Ask your teacher 's advice / Ask your teacher for advice on how to prepare for the exam.
We were advised to seek legal advice.
Let me give you a piece of advice.
A word of advice. Don't wear that dress.
Take my advice. Don't do it.
I chose it on his advice.
If I were you, I'd wait.
I think you should/ought to see a doctor.
Why don't you/Why not/Could you maybe ask Tom to help?
If you want my advice/If you want to know what I think, I'd say it's better to tell him.
I'd advise you to sell it now.
I would strongly advise against going out on your own.
Her mother was away and couldn't advise her.
I'd advise extreme caution.
'Get there early,' she advised (them).
Police are advising people to stay at home.
I'd advise you not to tell him.
They advise that a passport be carried with you at all times.
(BrE also ) They advise that a passport should be carried with you at all times.
It is strongly advised that you take out insurance.
I'd advise buying your tickets well in advance if you want to travel in August.
We'd recommend you to book your flight early.
a recommended price of $50
Police are advising fans without tickets to stay away.
The group does not advocate the use of violence.
The situation is dangerous and the UN is urging caution.
We employ an expert to advise on new technology.
She advises the government on environmental issues.
The pharmacist will advise which medicines are safe to take.
Your lawyer can advise you whether to take any action.
Please advise us of any change of address.
I will contact you later to advise you when to come.
I regret to advise you that the course is now full.
Early booking is advisable.
It is advisable to book early.
the University Advisement Center
The judge has taken the matter under advisement.
a financial adviser
a special adviser to the President on education
an advisory committee/body/service
He acted in an advisory capacity only.
a tornado advisory
an advocacy group for the rights of the mentally ill
Many experts advocate rewarding your child for good behaviour.
The report advocated that all buildings be fitted with smoke detectors.
(BrE also ) The report advocated that all buildings should be fitted with smoke detectors.
an advocate for hospital workers
a staunch advocate of free speech
district attorney
counsel for the prosecution
Solicitor General
My computer keeps getting infected with unwanted adware.
aeons of geological history
Earthworms do the important job of aerating the soil.
aerated water
aerial attacks/bombardment/photography
an aerial view of Palm Island
The banyan tree has aerial roots.
aerodynamic
aerospace
an aerobatic display
aerobic bacteria
to do aerobics
Research has focused on improving the car's aerodynamics.
the car's aerodynamic shape (= making it able to move faster)
an aeronautical engineer
ozone-friendly aerosols
an aerosol can/spray
jobs in aerospace and defence
the aerospace industry
an aesthetic appreciation of the landscape
The works of art are judged on purely aesthetic grounds.
The benefits of conservation are both financial and aesthetic.
Their furniture was more aesthetic than functional.
aesthetically pleasing colour combinations
The students debated the aesthetic of the poems.
He loved her from afar (= did not tell her he loved her).
Leeds United AFC
world/international/business affairs
an expert on foreign affairs (= political events in other countries)
affairs of state
The newspapers exaggerated the whole affair wildly.
The debate was a pretty disappointing affair.
She wanted the celebration to be a simple family affair.
She is having an affair with her boss.
I looked after my father's financial affairs.
She wanted to put her affairs in order before she died.
How I spend my money is my affair.
Her hat was an amazing affair with feathers and a huge brim.
How will these changes affect us?
Your opinion will not affect my decision.
The south of the country was worst affected by the drought.
Does television affect children's behaviour?
Does television have an effect on children's behaviour?
They hope to effect a reconciliation.
The condition affects one in five women.
Rub the cream into the affected areas.
They were deeply affected by the news of her death.
She affected a calmness she did not feel.
I wish he wouldn't affect that ridiculous accent.
His little affectations irritated her.
Kay has no affectation at all.
He raised his eyebrows with an affectation of surprise (= pretending to be surprised).
an affected laugh/smile
Children need lots of love and affection.
He didn't show his wife any affection.
She was held in deep affection by all her students.
Mr Darcy's affection for his sister
I have a great affection for New York.
Anne had two men trying to win her affections.
He is very affectionate towards his children.
an affectionate kiss
William was affectionately known as Billy.
affective disorders
The hospital is affiliated with the local university.
The group is not affiliated to any political party.
The majority of people questioned affiliated themselves with a religious group.
All affiliated members can vote.
a government-affiliated institute
He was arrested because of his political affiliation.
Sam was born in the country and had a deep affinity with nature.
There is a close affinity between Italian and Spanish.
Both sides affirmed their commitment to the ceasefire.
I can affirm that no one will lose their job.
She nodded in affirmation.
90% voted affirmatively.
She answered in the affirmative (= said 'yes').
The label should be firmly affixed to the package.
Aid will be sent to the afflicted areas.
About 40% of the country's population is afflicted with the disease.
affluent Western countries
a very affluent neighbourhood
It's good to see you looking so prosperous.
His family is not very well off.
They're not millionaires, but they're certainly very comfortable.
Can we afford a new car?
None of them could afford £50 for a ticket.
She felt she couldn't afford any more time off work.
We can't afford to go abroad this summer.
She never took a taxi, even though she could afford to.
He couldn't afford the money to go on the trip.
We cannot afford to ignore this warning.
(formal) They could ill afford to lose any more staff.
We cannot afford any more delays.
The tree affords some shelter from the sun.
The programme affords young people the chance to gain work experience.
affordable prices/housing
a bottle of cheap perfume
affordably priced apartments
Don't be afraid.
It's all over. There's nothing to be afraid of now.
Are you afraid of spiders?
I started to feel afraid of going out alone at night.
She was afraid to open the door.
She was afraid of upsetting her parents.
Don't be afraid to ask if you don't understand.
We were afraid (that) we were going to capsize the boat.
I'm not afraid for me, but for the baby.
They had already fired three people and he was afraid for his job.
I can't help you, I'm afraid.
I'm afraid we can't come.
I'm afraid that it's not finished yet.
He's no better, I'm afraid to say.
'Is there any left?' ' I'm afraid not.'
'Will it hurt?' ' I'm afraid so.'
There's nothing to be afraid of.
Aren't you afraid (that) you'll fall?
a frightened child
She was frightened that the glass would break.
The thieves got scared and ran away.
I was terrified (that) she wouldn't come.
She looked at him with wide, terrified eyes.
She was alarmed at the prospect of travelling alone.
You're just being paranoid.
He hoped they would not feel affronted if they were not invited.
an affronted expression
We'll leave after lunch.
They arrived shortly after 5.
Not long after that he resigned.
Let's meet the day after tomorrow/the week after next.
After winning the prize she became famous overnight.
After an hour I went home (= when an hour had passed).
(NAmE) It's ten after seven in the morning (= 7.10 a.m.).
day after day of hot weather
I've told you time after time not to do that.
Shut the door after you.
I'm always having to clean up after the children (= clean the place after they have left it dirty and untidy).
He ran after her with the book.
She was left staring after him.
Your name comes after mine in the list.
He's the tallest, after Richard.
After you (= Please go first).
After you with the paper (= Can I have it next?).
It was pleasantly cool in the house after the sticky heat outside.
I'll never forgive him after what he said.
I can't believe she'd do that, not after all I've done for her.
The police are after him.
He's after a job at our place.
She asked after you (= how you were).
a painting after Goya
We named the baby 'Ena' after her grandmother.
after-hours drinking (= after closing time)
an after-school club
after-dinner mints
So you made it after all!
He should have paid. He suggested it, after all.
I'll call you after I've spoken to them.
Several years after they'd split up they met again by chance in Paris.
That was in 1996. Soon after, I heard that he'd died.
I could come next week, or the week after.
And they all lived happily ever after.
in after years
You can hire a car if you want to explore further afield.
Journalists came from as far afield as China.
He's going to be AFK for a few days so won't be able to work on the project.
The whole building was soon aflame.
The woods were aflame with autumn colours.
eyes/cheeks aflame
Somehow we kept the boat afloat.
They will have to borrow £10 million next year, just to stay afloat.
There are plans afoot to increase taxation.
Changes were afoot.
The aforementioned person was seen acting suspiciously.
to run afoul of the law
It was a chance to start afresh.
Afro-Asian
I can play the piano, after a fashion.
Anyone can be wise after the event.
On some vital decisions employees were only informed after the fact.
The new library is very much after the fashion of Nash.
Try to get home before dark.
Don't go out alone after dark.
aftercare services
A lot of rebuilding took place in the aftermath of the war.
the assassination of the Prime Minister and its immediate aftermath
this/yesterday/tomorrow afternoon
In the afternoon they went shopping.
She studies art two afternoons a week.
Are you ready for this afternoon's meeting?
The baby always has an afternoon nap.
Come over on Sunday afternoon.
Where were you on the afternoon of May 21?
Afternoons he works at home.
fruit salad for afters
They only invited Jack and Sarah as an afterthought.
Afterwards she was sorry for what she'd said.
Let's go out now and eat afterwards.
Shortly afterwards he met her again.
Ag, don't worry about it.
Ag, no man!
Could you say it again, please?
When will I see you again?
This must never happen again.
Once again (= as had happened several times before), the train was late.
I've told you again and again (= many times) not to do that.
I'll have to write it all over again (= again from the beginning).
He was glad to be home again.
She spends two hours a day getting to work and back again.
You'll soon feel well again.
The cost is about half as much again as it was two years ago.
I'd like the same again (= the same amount or the same thing).
And again, we must think of the cost.
We might buy it but then again we might not.
What was the name again?
You will get a perfect result time after time if you follow these instructions.
the fight against terrorism
We're playing against the league champions next week.
We were rowing against the current.
That's against the law.
She was forced to marry against her will.
Are you for or against the death penalty?
She is against seeing (= does not want to see) him.
I'd advise you against doing that.
The evidence is against him.
Her age is against her.
Put the piano there, against the wall.
The rain beat against the windows.
an injection against rabies
They took precautions against fire.
Are we insured against theft?
His red clothes stood out clearly against the snow.
(figurative) The love story unfolds against a background of civil war.
You must weigh the benefits against the cost.
Check your receipts against the statement.
What's the rate of exchange against the dollar?
They got 27% of the vote as against 32% at the last election.
Murder is a crime against nature.
They're working against time to try and get people out of the rubble alive.
I was forced to sign the agreement against my will.
He left school at the age of 18.
She needs more friends of her own age.
children from 5–10 years of age
Young people of all ages go there to meet.
When I was your age I was already married.
He started playing the piano at an early age.
All ages admitted.
Children over the age of 12 must pay full fare.
She was beginning to feel her age (= feel that she was getting old).
He was tall for his age (= taller than you would expect, considering his age).
There's a big age gap between them (= a big difference in their ages).
ways of calculating the age of the earth
middle age
15 is an awkward age.
He died of old age.
the nuclear age
the age of the computer
Wine improves with age.
The jacket was showing signs of age.
the wisdom that comes with age
I waited for ages.
It'll probably take ages to find a parking space.
Carlos left ages ago.
It's been an age since we've seen them.
It is illegal to sell cigarettes to children who are under age.
The show appeals to an audience of a certain age.
As he aged, his memory got worse.
The population is aging (= more people are living longer).
The shock has aged her.
Exposure to the sun ages the skin.
The cheese is left to age for at least a year.
The wine is aged in oak casks.
men in the older age group
education for the 16–18 age group
Which age bracket are you? (Please tick the box).
the upper/lower age limit
age-long traditions
The toddlers participated in playgroups with age-mates.
an age-old custom/problem
They have two children aged six and nine.
volunteers aged between 25 and 40
my aged aunt
She's getting old—she's 75 next year.
She is very busy caring for two elderly relatives.
Having aged relatives to stay in your house can be quite stressful.
Everyone in my family is exceptionally long-lived.
clothes for the mature woman
services for the sick and the aged
signs of ageing
ageing equipment
an ageing rock star
Her beauty appeared ageless.
the ageless mystery of the universe
an advertising/employment agency
You can book at your local travel agency.
international aid agencies caring for refugees
the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)
The next item on the agenda is the publicity budget.
This is an ambitious agenda that will take time to implement.
For the government, education is now at the top of the agenda (= most important).
Newspapers have been accused of trying to set the agenda for the government (= decide what is important).
In our company, quality is high on the agenda.
The Diary of Anne Frank
a bus/train timetable
The artist is letting his own agenda affect what was meant to be a community project.
an insurance agent
Our agent in New York deals with all US sales.
a theatrical/literary agent
an enemy agent
The charity has been an agent for social change.
cleaning/oxidizing agents
political groups agitating for social change
Her family are agitating to have her transferred to a prison in the UK.
These small particles agglomerate together to form larger clusters.
They agglomerated many small pieces of research into a single large study.
a multimedia agglomerate (= group of companies)
Her sole aim is personal aggrandizement.
Pollution can aggravate asthma.
Military intervention will only aggravate the conflict even further.
I don't need all this aggravation at work.
The drug may cause an aggravation of the condition.
When he said that, I had to agree.
'That's true', she agreed.
He agreed with them about the need for change.
I agree with her analysis of the situation.
We agreed (that) the proposal was a good one.
'It's terrible.' 'I couldn't agree more!' (= I completely agree)
Yes, that's true.
That's right. On the other hand, there are some drawbacks to the plan…
Exactly.
Absolutely.
Definitely.
Yes, I suppose/guess so.
I agree. It's definitely the best idea.
I think you're right. We should listen to what they have to say.
Sue is absolutely right. It's too early to make a decision now.
I would go along with the idea that we should change the logo.
We are in agreement on the best way to proceed, but we need to discuss the timing.(formal)
Are we all agreed on this?
It was agreed (that) we should hold another meeting.
I asked for a pay rise and she agreed.
Do you think he'll agree to their proposal?
She agreed (that) I could go early.
She agreed to let me go early.
Can we agree on a date?
They met at the agreed time.
Can we agree a price?
They left at ten, as agreed.
We agreed to meet on Thursday.
We couldn't agree what to do.
Next year's budget has been agreed.
The figures do not agree.
Your account of the accident does not agree with hers.
In 'Tom likes jazz', the singular verb 'likes' agrees with the subject 'Tom'.
I love strawberries, but they don't agree with me.
an international peace agreement
The agreement (= the document recording the agreement) was signed during a meeting at the UN.
They have a free trade agreement with Australia.
An agreement was finally reached between management and employees.
They had made a verbal agreement to sell.
They had an agreement never to talk about work at home.
The two sides failed to reach agreement.
Are we in agreement about the price?
You'll have to get your parents' agreement if you want to go on the trip.
In the sentence 'They live in the country', the plural form of the verb 'live' is in agreement with the plural subject 'they'.
They won 4–2 on aggregate.
aggregate demand/investment/turnover
(BrE) an aggregate win over their rivals
The scores were aggregated with the first round totals to decide the winner.
the aggregation of data
a news aggregator
He gets aggressive when he's drunk.
a dangerous aggressive dog
an aggressive advertising campaign
A good salesperson has to be aggressive in today's competitive market.
'What do you want?' he demanded aggressively.
aggressively marketed products
The research shows that computer games may cause aggression.
unprovoked military aggression
the aggrieved party (= person) in the case
Don't give me any aggro or I'll call the police.
I had a lot of aggro at the bank.
Erica looked at him aghast.
He stood aghast at the sight of so much blood.
an agile mind/brain
He had the agility of a man half his age.
Calm down! Don't get so agitated.
Dot arrived in a state of great agitation.
widespread agitation for social reform
The situation has provoked agitations all over the region.
Protesters are expected to launch an agitation over the issue.
I'm largely agnostic on this issue as I know so little about it.
Now that the services are platform-agnostic, they can be accessed by far more users.
two weeks/months/years ago
The letter came a few days ago.
She was here just a minute ago.
a short/long time ago
How long ago did you buy it?
It was on TV not (so) long ago.
He stopped working some time ago (= quite a long time ago).
They're getting married? It's not that long ago (= it's only a short time ago) that they met!
Jack collapsed in agony on the floor.
It was agony not knowing where the children were.
She waited in an agony of suspense.
The worst agonies of the war were now beginning.
Tell me now! Don't prolong the agony (= make it last longer).
Bosses piled on the agony with threats of more job losses.
I spent days agonizing over whether to take the job or not.
agonized cries
his father's agonizing death
It was the most agonizing decision of her life.
an agonizingly slow process
We spent a most agreeable day together.
He seemed extremely agreeable.
Do you think they will be agreeable to our proposal?
The deal must be agreeable to both sides.
an agreeably warm day
They were agreeably surprised by the quality of the food.
The number of people employed in agriculture has fallen in the last decade.
agricultural policy/land/production/development
agro-industry
agriculture
Ah, there you are!
Ah, this coffee is good.
Ah well, better luck next time.
Ah, but that may not be true.
a Koran dated 556 AH
Aha! So that's where I left it!
I had an aha moment and suddenly knew what to do.
I'll run ahead and warn them.
The road ahead was blocked.
We've got a lot of hard work ahead.
This will create problems in the months ahead.
He was looking straight ahead (= straight forward, in front of him).
The party was planned weeks ahead.
Our team was ahead by six points.
You need to work hard to keep ahead.
Two boys were ahead of us.
Ahead of us lay ten days of intensive training.
I finished several days ahead of the deadline.
She was always well ahead of the rest of the class.
His ideas were way ahead of their time (= very new and so not widely understood or accepted).
Our expert advice will help you stay ahead of the curve.
We've fallen behind the curve when it comes to developing new digital products.
We finished 15 minutes ahead of time.
Ahem, can I make a suggestion?
He had a new car and a boat.
Have you got a job yet?
I don't have that much money on me.
She's got a BA in English.
In 2008 the party had 10 000 members.
The ham had a smoky flavour.
The house has gas-fired central heating.
They have a lot of courage.
He's got a front tooth missing.
Surely she didn't have the nerve to say that to him?
He's got three children.
Do you have a client named Peters?
Have you got time to call him?
We have no choice in the matter.
They've got a wonderful house.
We haven't got a television.
Have you got a meeting today?
Do you have any brothers and sisters?
We don't have a car.
I have no objection to your request.
Have you an appointment?
I'm sorry, I haven't a clue.
They had a wonderful house.
We didn't have much time.
Did she have her husband with her?
They have a wonderful house.
We don't have a television.
Do you have a meeting today?
'Does your brother have brown hair?' 'No, he's got blond hair.'
We don't often have time to talk.
We have a duty to care for the refugees.
I've got a lot of homework tonight.
I must go—I have a bus to catch.
She'd got him by the collar.
He had his head in his hands.
Mary had her back to me.
I soon had the fish in a net.
He had the strong impression that someone was watching him.
We've got a few ideas for the title.
(informal) I've got it! We'll call it 'Word Magic'.
I've got a headache.
I went to a few parties and had a good time.
I was having difficulty in staying awake.
She'll have an accident one day.
Let's have a party.
to have breakfast/lunch/dinner
I'll have the salmon (= for example, in a restaurant).
I had a cigarette while I was waiting.
I had a swim to cool down.
(BrE) to have a wash/shower/bath
She's going to have a baby.
His paintings had a strong influence on me as a student.
The colour green has a restful effect.
I had a letter from my brother this morning.
Can I have the bill, please?
I'm having treatment for my back problem.
How many driving lessons have you had so far?
We have orders coming in from all over the world.
She had her bag stolen.
You've had your hair cut!
We're having our car repaired.
He had the bouncers throw them out of the club.
(informal) I'll have you know (= I'm telling you) I'm a black belt in judo.
She's always having the builders in to do something or other.
I'm sick of your rudeness—I won't have it any longer!
We can't have people arriving late all the time.
I want to have everything ready in good time.
He had his audience listening attentively.
You've got me there. I hadn't thought of that.
He had her in his office.
I'm afraid you've been had.
We're having the kids for the weekend.
We had some friends to dinner last night.
She had some friends with her.
Who can we have as treasurer?
Let's have done with this silly argument.
The car had had it.
I've had it! I'm going to bed.
When the truck smashed into me, I thought I'd had it.
Dad saw you scratch the car—you've had it now!
I've had it (up to here) with him —he's done it once too often.
Rumour has it that we'll have a new manager soon.
It was no surprise when she left him—everyone knew he had it coming to him.
Everyone thinks he has it in him to produce a literary classic.
You were great. I didn't know you had it in you.
I tried to persuade her to wait but she wasn't having any.
There's room in the cellar to store old furniture and what have you.
What have you got against Ruth? She's always been good to you.
You can have your files back after we've checked them.
Have we got enough food in?
You didn't really, did you? You're not having me on, are you?
She had a red jacket on.
He had nothing (= no clothes) on.
She has her TV on all day.
I can't see you this week—I've got a lot on.
I'm not worried—they've got nothing on me.
I had to have my appendix out.
I need to have it out with her once and for all.
He was had up for manslaughter.
I've finished my work.
He's gone home, hasn't he?
'Have you seen it?' 'Yes, I have/No, I haven't.'
She'll have had the results by now.
Had they left before you got there?
If I hadn't seen it with my own eyes I wouldn't have believed it.
(formal) Had I known that (= if I had known that) I would never have come.
Ahoy there!
Ship ahoy!(= there is a ship in sight)
You'll never guess what's happened!
Accidents like this happen all the time.
Let's see what happens next week.
I'll be there whatever happens.
I don't know how this happened.
She pressed the button but nothing happened.
What happens if nobody comes to the party?
Just plug it in and see what happens.
She happened to be out when we called.
You don't happen to know his name, do you?
It happened that she was out when we called.
That happens to be my mother you're talking about!
She was holding a large box.
I held the baby gently in my arms.
Hold on and don't let go until I say so.
Survivors clung to pieces of floating debris.
She stood there, the flowers still clutched in her hand.
He felt himself slipping and clutched at a branch.
Grip the rope as tightly as you can.
He grasped my hand and shook it warmly.
They clasped hands(= held each other's hands).
She clasped the children in her arms.
Hang on tight. We're off!
I agree with you, as it happens.
As it happens, I have a spare set of keys in my office.
It just so happened they'd been invited too.
'Sorry—I've spilt some wine.' 'Never mind. These things happen.'
In the event of an accident, call this number.
Sheila will inherit everything in the event of his death.
I hope nothing (= nothing unpleasant) has happened to them.
It's the best thing that has ever happened to me.
What's happened to your car?
Do you know what happened to Gill Lovecy (= have you any news about her)?
AID or artificial insemination by a donor
economic/humanitarian/emergency aid
An extra £10 million in foreign aid has been promised.
aid agencies (= organizations that provide help)
medical aid programmes
He was breathing only with the aid of a ventilator.
This job would be impossible without the aid of a computer.
One of the staff saw he was in difficulty and came to his aid (= helped him).
a hearing aid
Photos make useful teaching aids.
collecting money in aid of charity
What's all this crying in aid of?
The new test should aid in the early detection of the disease.
This feature is designed to aid inexperienced users.
Aided by heat and strong winds, the fire quickly spread.
They were accused of aiding his escape.
They were accused of aiding him in his escape.
Words will be displayed around the room to aid students with spelling.
White House aides
AIDS research/education/victims
He developed full-blown AIDS five years after contracting HIV.
They discussed the problems ailing the steel industry.
What is ailing you?
She looked after her ailing father.
measures to help the ailing economy
childhood/common/minor ailments
He suffers from a rare blood disease.
She died after a long illness.
a rare disorder of the liver
a throat infection
a heart condition
childhood ailments
a nasty flu bug
the aims of the lesson
She went to London with the aim of finding a job.
Our main aim is to increase sales in Europe.
Bob's one aim in life is to earn a lot of money.
Teamwork is required in order to achieve these aims.
She set out the company's aims and objectives in her speech.
Our campaign's main purpose is to raise money.
I have no intention of going to the wedding.
She's full of good intentions but they rarely work out.
There are no plans to build new offices.
What's the point of all this violence?
The point of the lesson is to compare the two countries.
The whole idea of going was so that we could meet her new boyfriend.
What's the idea behind this?
Her aim was good and she hit the lion with her first shot.
The gunman took aim (= pointed his weapon) and fired.
He has always aimed high (= tried to achieve a lot).
We should aim for a bigger share of the market.
The government is aiming at a 50% reduction in unemployment.
They are aiming to reduce unemployment by 50%.
We aim to be there around six.
They're aiming at training everybody by the end of the year.
These measures are aimed at preventing violent crime.
I was aiming at the tree but hit the car by mistake.
Aim for the middle of the target.
The gun was aimed at her head.
The book is aimed at very young children.
My criticism wasn't aimed at you.
My life seemed aimless.
He drifted aimlessly from one job to another.
Things ain't what they used to be.
I ain't got no money.
You ain't seen nothing yet.
Gatwick Airport
waiting in the airport lounge
air pollution
Let's go out for some fresh air.
I need to put some air in my tyres.
currents of warm air
I kicked the ball high in/into the air.
Spicy smells wafted through the air.
Music filled the night air.
It only takes three hours by air (= in a plane).
air travel/traffic
The temple was clearly visible from the air.
A surprise air attack (= from aircraft) was launched at night.
The room had an air of luxury.
She looked at him with a defiant air.
Bach's Air on a G string
I hate the way she puts on airs.
There's romance in the air.
We will be back on air tomorrow morning at 7.
The programme was taken off the air over the summer.
Our travel plans are still up in the air.
I just plucked a figure out of the air and said : 'Would £1 000 seem reasonable to you?'
Air the sheets well.
Leave the towels out to air.
The rooms had all been cleaned and aired.
The weekly meeting enables employees to air their grievances.
The show will be aired next Tuesday night.
The program aired last week.
Air Chief Marshal Sir Robin Hall
Air Commodore Peter Shaw
air-conditioned offices
Air coolers are the ideal solution for the summer.
Unlike air coolers that put moisture into the air, air conditioners actually remove moisture.
the US Air Force
air-force officers
Whenever he hears this music, he starts playing air guitar.
Air Marshal Gordon Black
The family was killed in an air raid.
an air-raid shelter/warning
The pilot was given clearance to land by air traffic control.
Air Vice-Marshal Andrew Burns
He air-dashed to Delhi when he heard the news.
air-dried ham
an air-to-air missile
air-to-ground weapons
air-to-surface missiles
Do not leave your seat until the plane is airborne.
airborne seeds/viruses
an airborne division
an airbrushed photograph of a model
Somebody had been airbrushed out of the picture.
fighter/transport/military aircraft
Aircraftman John Green
The UN has begun making airdrops of food to refugees.
Take advantage of low-season airfares.
She's a total airhead!
The office was light and airy.
He dismissed her with an airy wave.
airy promises/speculation
an opportunity to give your views an airing
The subject got a thorough airing in the British press.
a stuffy, airless room
The night was hot and airless.
Two casualties were airlifted to safety.
international airlines
an airline pilot
Send it airmail/by airmail.
Airman Brines
They arrived in Belgium by airplane.
an airplane crash/flight
a commercial/jet/military airplane
The band is starting to get a lot of airplay.
The jet entered Chinese airspace without permission.
Store the cake in an airtight container.
(figurative) an airtight alibi (= one that cannot be proved to be false)
More and more TV and radio stations are crowding the airwaves.
A well-known voice came over the airwaves.
British Airways
an aisle seat (= in a plane or train)
Coffee and tea are in the next aisle.
She soon had us rolling in the aisles.
He spoke with a cockney accent and dropped his aitches (= did not pronounce the letter H at the start of words).
Aiyo, what terrible news!
Aiyo, that hurts!
I'll leave the door ajar.
Antonio Fratelli, aka 'Big Tony'
What he felt was more akin to pity than love.
There was an awkward silence.
Don't ask awkward questions.
You've put me in an awkward position.
an awkward customer (= a person who is difficult to deal with)
Please don't be awkward about letting him come.
Have I come at an awkward time?
This box is very awkward for one person to carry.
He tried to dance, but he was too clumsy and awkward.
I must have slept in an awkward position—I'm aching all over.
'I'm sorry,' he said awkwardly.
She fell awkwardly and broke her ankle.
an awkwardly shaped room
She laughed to cover up her feeling of awkwardness.
an al fresco lunch party
eating al fresco
an alabaster tomb
(literary) her pale, alabaster (= white and smooth) skin
Alas and alack, we had missed our bus.
They accepted the offer with alacrity.
'What have you done?' Ellie cried in alarm.
I felt a growing sense of alarm when he did not return that night.
The doctor said there was no cause for alarm.
(a) fear of flying
She showed no fear.
Her eyes were wild with terror.
I had a sudden moment of panic.
She cried out in fright.
She decided to sound the alarm (= warn people that the situation was dangerous).
I hammered on all the doors to raise the alarm.
a burglar/fire/smoke alarm
The cat set off the alarm (= made it start ringing).
A car alarm went off in the middle of the night (= started ringing).
The alarm went off at 7 o'clock.
The captain knew there was an engine fault but didn't want to alarm the passengers.
He brought out a gun and frightened them off.
They managed to scare the bears away.
It alarms me that nobody takes this problem seriously.
Flying terrified her.
Could I have an alarm call at 5.30 tomorrow, please?
I set the alarm clock for 7 o'clock.
This door is alarmed.
an alarming increase in crime
The rainforests are disappearing at an alarming rate.
Prices have risen alarmingly.
A spokesperson for the food industry said the TV programme was alarmist.
For many people, alas, hunger is part of everyday life.
He finally agreed, albeit reluctantly, to help us.
a photo album
an online album (= a website where you can store and view photographs)
the band's latest album
an online album (= an album that you can listen to on the Internet)
The clinic felt like Alcatraz. There was no escape.
He never drinks alcohol.
alcohol abuse
Wine contains about 10% alcohol.
levels of alcohol in the blood
He pleaded guilty to driving with excess alcohol.
low-alcohol beer
alcohol-free beer
alcoholic drinks
The guests left in an alcoholic haze.
The bookcase fits neatly into the alcove.
Alderman Tim Evans
brown/pale ale
Two light ales please.
The prosecution alleges (that) she was driving carelessly.
It is alleged that he mistreated the prisoners.
He is alleged to have mistreated the prisoners.
This procedure should be followed in cases where dishonesty has been alleged.
the alleged attacker/victim/killer (= that sb says is one)
the alleged attack/offence/incident (= that sb says has happened)
crimes allegedly committed during the war
to switch/transfer/change allegiance
an oath/a vow/a statement of allegiance
People of various party allegiances joined the campaign.
to pledge/swear allegiance
He affirmed his allegiance to the president.
Suddenly he found himself awake and fully alert.
Two alert scientists spotted the mistake.
We must be alert to the possibility of danger.
Neighbours quickly alerted the emergency services.
Alerted by a noise downstairs, he sat up and turned on the light.
They had been alerted to the possibility of further price rises.
Police are warning the public to be on the alert for suspicious packages.
More than 5 000 troops have been placed on (full) alert.
a bomb/fire alert
algal blooms/growth
Mick Clark, alias Sid Brown
Hercule Poirot, alias David Suchet (= David Suchet plays the part of Hercule Poirot)
David Suchet, alias Hercule Poirot of the famous TV series
He checked into the hotel under an alias.
The suspects all had alibis for the day of the robbery.
The country's economic system is pure Alice in Wonderland.
I felt I was in an Alice-in-Wonderland world.
an alien environment
In a world that had suddenly become alien and dangerous, he was her only security.
an alien culture
The idea is alien to our religion.
Cruelty was quite alien to him.
alien beings from outer space
an illegal alien
aliens from outer space
His comments have alienated a lot of young voters.
Very talented children may feel alienated from the others in their class.
The new policy resulted in the alienation of many voters.
Many immigrants suffer from a sense of alienation.
A cigarette set the dry grass alight.
Her dress caught alight in the fire.
He's never going to set the world on fire with his paintings.
Do not alight from a moving bus.
Eventually, we alighted on the idea of seeking sponsorship.
Her eyes suddenly alighted on the bundle of documents.
Make sure the shelf is aligned with the top of the cupboard.
The top and bottom line of each column on the page should align.
Domestic prices have been aligned with those in world markets.
A bone in my spine was out of alignment.
Japan's alignment with the West
My sister and I do not look alike.
They tried to treat all their children alike.
Good management benefits employers and employees alike.
We don't know whether he's alive or dead.
Is your mother still alive?
Doctors kept the baby alive for six weeks.
I was glad to hear you're alive and well.
She had to steal food just to stay alive.
He was buried alive in the earthquake.
Ed was alive with happiness.
to keep a tradition alive
The pool was alive with goldfish.
to be alive to the dangers/facts/possibilities
The pictures bring the book alive.
The game came alive in the second half.
The city starts to come alive after dark.
She came alive as she talked about her job.
The defence lawyers are going to eat you alive tomorrow.
I was being eaten alive by mosquitoes.
alkaline soil
Methane and propane are alkanes.
All horses are animals, but not all animals are horses.
Cars were coming from all directions (= every direction).
All the people you invited are coming.
All my plants have died.
All five men are hard workers.
All wood tends to shrink.
You've had all the fun and I've had all the hard work.
All this mail must be answered.
He has lost all his money.
He's worked hard all year.
She was unemployed for all that time.
In all honesty (= being as honest as I can), I can't agree.
The magazine was all advertisements.
She was all smiles (= smiling a lot).
He denied all knowledge of the crime.
I'm bored by history—dates and battles and all that stuff.
He doesn't sing all that well.
They're not as rich as all that.
We didn't play particularly well, but we didn't do as badly as all that.
I didn't think you, of all people, would become a vegetarian.
I've locked myself out. Of all the stupid things to do!
For all its clarity of style, the book is not easy reading.
For all I know she's still living in Boston.
You can do what you like, for all I care.
For all the good it's done we might as well not have bothered.
All of the food has gone.
They've eaten all of it.
They've eaten it all.
I invited some of my colleagues but not all.
Not all of them were invited.
All of them enjoyed the party.
They all enjoyed it.
His last movie was best of all.
All I want is peace and quiet.
It was all that I had.
We have invited fifty people altogether.
I am not altogether convinced by this argument.
Can you put your books all together in this box?
Let's sing 'Happy Birthday'. All together now!
All in all it had been a great success.
It's a corkscrew and bottle-opener all in one.
She jumped into the river, clothes and all (= with her clothes on).
'I'm freezing.' 'Yeah, me and all.'
There were twelve of us in all for dinner.
That's £25.40 in all.
'Thanks very much for your help.' 'Not at all, it was a pleasure.'
They gave their all (= fought and died) in the war.
We realized we were surrounded on all sides.
Disaster threatens on every side.
She was dressed all in white.
He lives all alone.
The coffee went all over my skirt.
She was all excited.
Now don't get all upset about it.
I'm all too aware of the problems.
The end of the trip came all too soon.
The score was four all.
I realized it was in my pocket all along.
We'll have to work all the harder with two people off sick.
The party was all but over when we arrived.
It was all but impossible to read his writing.
All but one of the plates were damaged.
At the end of the race he felt all in.
The trip cost £750 all in.
It must be all of 100 metres to the car!
We looked all over for the ring.
That sounds like my sister all over.
a good performance all round
She bought drinks all round.
He behaves very oddly at times—I don't think he's quite all there.
It's all about money these days.
They're all for saving money where they can.
He was all over her at the party.
He thinks he's all that.
It looks as though it's all up with us now (= we are ruined, have no further chances, etc.).
She was known to all and sundry as Bella.
The club is open to all and sundry.
All at once she lost her temper.
I can't do everything all at once—you'll have to be patient.
We expect shares to rise unless the economy slows down again, in which case all bets are off.
There are 30 people coming to dinner tonight, so it's all hands on deck.
There was a loud bang and then all hell broke loose.
He's started staying out till all hours (= until very late at night).
She thinks she can call me at all hours of the day and night.
The problem can be solved in all manner of ways.
All of a sudden someone grabbed me around the neck.
New restaurants are appearing all over the place.
Your calculations are all over the place (= completely wrong).
Is the coffee all right?
Are you getting along all right in your new job?
'They're off to Spain next week.' 'It's all right for some, isn't it?' (= some people are lucky)
I hope the children are all right.
Do you feel all right?
I'm not feeling very well.
Is he well enough to travel?
Are you feeling all right?
She says she's OK now, and will be back at work tomorrow.
'How are you?' 'Fine, thanks.'
Keep healthy by exercising regularly.
After a few weeks she was feeling stronger.
I go swimming every day in order to keep fit.
Your work is all right but I'm sure you could do better.
Are you sure it's all right for me to leave early?
'Are you sure it's her?' 'Oh, it's her all right.'
We've got to get up early, all right?
'Can you do it?' 'Oh, all right.'
'I'm really sorry.' 'That's all right, don't worry.'
All right class, turn to page 20.
'All right, Bill.' 'All right.'
'Could I interest you in our special offer?' 'No, you're all right, mate.'
All he ever does is grumble about things.
Twelve hours later she was all smiles again.
The letter was in my pocket all the time (= while I was looking for it).
She leaves the lights on all the time.
She didn't speak a word to me all the way back home.
I'm fighting him all the way.
You can feel that the audience is with her all the way.
She's had a lot of problems since her husband died but she seems quite cheerful, all things considered.
If these measures also reduce unemployment, that is all to the good.
There are 52 people coming, all told.
It's all very well for you to say it doesn't matter, but I've put a lot of work into this and I want it to be a success.
That's all well and good, but why didn't he call her to say so?
an all-British cast
an all-inclusive price
all-important
all-powerful
an all-action movie
a clean-cut all-American boy
The ship was given the all-clear to sail.
an all-consuming love of jazz
an all-day meeting
The cafe serves an all-day breakfast.
an all-in price of £500 with no extras to pay
an all-in-one shampoo and conditioner
We sell printers and scanners, and all-in-ones that combine the two.
Our trips are all-inclusive—there are no hidden costs.
an all-night cafe
an all-night party
an all-or-nothing decision (= one which could either be very good or very bad)
all-out war
an all-out attack on the opposition
We're going all out to win.
an all-over tan
all-party support
an all-pervading sense of gloom
the all-powerful secret police
an all-round education
She's a good all-round player.
an all-star cast
an all-ticket match
one of the all-time great players
my all-time favourite song
Unemployment reached an all-time record of 3 million.
Profits are at an all-time high/low.
an all-weather football pitch
He's not very reliable, but I like him just the same.
'Will you stay for lunch?' 'No, but thanks all the same.'
All the same, there's some truth in what she says.
All things being equal, we should finish the job tomorrow.
a political allegory
the poet's use of allegory
an allegorical figure/novel
to form/make an alliance
The Social Democrats are now in alliance with the Greens.
an alliance between education and business to develop the use of technology in schools
The Green Alliance was formed to campaign against environmental damage.
to allay fears/concern/suspicion
to investigate/deny/withdraw an allegation
Several newspapers made allegations of corruption in the city's police department.
allegations of dishonesty against him
The committee has made serious allegations about interference in its work.
an allegation that he had been dishonest
I like cats but unfortunately I'm allergic to them.
an allergic reaction/rash
You could see he was allergic to housework.
I have an allergy to animal hair.
to alleviate suffering
A number of measures were taken to alleviate the problem.
a narrow/dark alley
Italy joined the war on the Allied side in 1915.
allied forces/troops
medicine, nursing, physiotherapy and other allied professions
In this job you will need social skills allied with technical knowledge.
a close ally and friend of the prime minister
her most powerful political ally
The prince allied himself with the Scots.
I like almost all of them.
It's a mistake they almost always make.
The story is almost certainly false.
It's almost time to go.
Dinner's almost ready.
He slipped and almost fell.
Their house is almost opposite ours.
They'll eat almost anything.
Almost no one (= hardly anyone) believed him.
She almost/nearly/practically missed her train.
Nearly all the students have bikes.
I've got practically every CD they've made.
There were nearly 200 people at the meeting.
I'll eat almost anything.
She's almost never in.
The boat looked almost like a toy.
He was very nearly caught.
A large sum has been allocated for buying new books for the library.
They intend to allocate more places to mature students this year.
More resources are being allocated to the project.
The project is being allocated more resources.
Millions have been allocated to improve students' performance.
the allocation of food to those who need it most
They walked slowly along the road.
I looked along the shelves for the book I needed.
Houses had been built along both sides of the river.
You'll find his office just along the corridor.
I was just walking along singing to myself.
He pointed out various landmarks as we drove along.
We're going for a swim. Why don't you come along?
I'll be along (= I'll join you) in a few minutes.
The book's coming along nicely.
She lost her job when the factory closed, along with hundreds of others.
Within French-speaking Quebec, anglophone, allophone and Aboriginal minorities also exist.
I completed the test within the time allotted.
How much money has been allotted to us?
How much money have we been allotted?
Water allotments to farmers were cut back in the drought.
the allotment of shares to company employees
His parents won't allow him to stay out late.
He is not allowed to stay out late.
They shouldn't be allowed to get away with it.
He allowed his mind to wander.
She won't allow herself to be dictated to.
Smoking is not allowed in the hall.
You're allowed an hour to complete the test.
I'm not allowed visitors.
No dogs allowed (= you cannot bring them in).
The prisoners are allowed out of their cells for two hours a day.
The crowd parted to allow her through.
You won't be allowed up (= out of bed) for several days.
A ramp allows easy access for wheelchairs.
This diagram illustrates the process of paper-making./This diagram shows how paper is made.
First / First of all, logs are delivered to a paper mill, where the bark is removed and the wood is cut into small chips.
Next / Second, the wood chips are pulped, either using chemicals or in a pulping machine.
Pulping breaks down the internal structure of the wood and enables / allows the natural oils to be removed.
Once / After the wood has been pulped, the pulp is bleached in order to remove impurities. /…is bleached so that impurities can be removed.
The next stage is to feed the pulp into the paper machine, where it is mixed with water and then poured onto a wire conveyor belt.
As the pulp travels along the conveyor belt, the water drains away. This causes the solid material to sink to the bottom, forming a layer of paper.
At this point the new paper is still wet, so it is passed between large heated rollers, which press out the remaining water and simultaneously dry the paper/…dry the paper at the same time.
The final stage is to wind the paper onto large rolls./ Finally, the paper is wound onto large rolls.
You need to allow three metres of fabric for the dress.
The judge allowed my claim.
(= in a court of law) 'Objection!' 'I'll allow it.'
He refuses to allow that such a situation could arise.
She was very helpful when my mother was ill—I'll allow you that.
The designer was given free rein.
The script allows full rein to her larger-than-life acting style.
It will take about an hour to get there, allowing for traffic delays.
All these factors must be allowed for.
The facts allow of only one explanation.
an allowance of $20 a day
a clothing/living/travel allowance
Do you get an allowance for clothing?
a baggage allowance of 20 kilos
personal tax allowances
The budget made allowance for inflation.
The plan makes no allowance for people working at different rates.
You have to make allowances for him because he's tired.
Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc.
'Lunch?' 'No thanks, I've already eaten.'
We got there early but Mike had already left.
I already did it.
Did you eat yet?
I've already done it.
Have you eaten yet?
(NAmE) I just got some bad news.
Is it 10 o'clock already?
You're not leaving already, are you?
I'm already late.
There are far too many people already. We can't take any more.
She's fluent in French and German. She also speaks a little Italian.
rubella, also known as German measles
I didn't like it that much. Also, it was much too expensive.
Jake's father had also been a doctor (= both Jake and his father were doctors).
She was not only intelligent but also very musical.
I went to New York last year, and I also spent some time in Washington.
'I'm going home now.' 'I'll come too.'
She hasn't phoned and she hasn't written either.
You can have a burger, but you can't have fries as well.
The train went slower and slower until it stopped altogether.
I don't altogether agree with you.
I am not altogether happy (= I am very unhappy) about the decision.
It was an altogether different situation.
You owe me £68 altogether.
The food was good and we loved the music. Altogether it was a great evening.
sexual allure
the allure of the big city
an alluring smile
His statement was seen as an allusion to the recent drug-related killings.
Her poetry is full of obscure literary allusion.
an allusive style of writing
There's always somebody at home in the evenings.
Always lock your car.
She always arrives at 7.30.
The children always seem to be hungry.
We're not always this busy!
Pat has always loved gardening.
This is the way we've always done it.
This painting is very good—Ellie always was very good at art (= so it is not very surprising).
Did you always want to be an actor?
I'll always love you.
She's always criticizing me.
That phone's always ringing.
If it doesn't fit, you can always take it back.
If he can't help, there's always John.
As always, Polly was late for school.
Once an actor, always an actor.
Almighty God, have mercy on us.
an almighty bang/crash/roar
Christ/God Almighty! What the hell do you think you are doing?
ground almonds
blanched almonds (= with their skins removed)
almond paste
almond eyes (= eyes shaped like almonds )
I don't like going out alone at night.
He lives alone.
Finally the two of us were alone together.
She was sitting all alone in the hall.
Tom is not alone in finding Rick hard to work with.
I like being alone in the house.
I'm going to London by myself next week.
I want to finish this on my own(= without anyone's help).
a lone jogger in the park
long, solitary walks
a lonely child
Sam was very lonely when he first moved to New York.
a lonely house
It's hard bringing up children alone.
The assassin said he had acted alone.
Carol felt all alone in the world.
I've been so alone since you went away.
You can't blame anyone else; you alone made the decision.
The shoes alone cost £200.
Andrew decided to go it alone and start his own business.
She's asked to be left alone but the press photographers follow her everywhere.
I've told you before—leave my things alone!
There isn't enough room for us, let alone any guests.
These islands are too small to stand alone as independent states.
The arch once stood alone at the entrance to the castle.
Only time will tell if the treatment has been successful.
Somewhere along the line a large amount of money went missing.
We'll make a decision on that further down the line.
The new system will operate along the same lines as the old one.
They voted along class lines.
Those aren't his exact words, but he said something along those lines.
A police car pulled up alongside us.
Traditional beliefs still flourish alongside a modern urban lifestyle.
Nick caught up with me and rode alongside.
The Emperor kept himself aloof from the people.
The teacher listened to the children reading aloud.
He read the letter aloud to us.
'What am I going to do?' she wondered aloud.
The audience laughed loudly at the joke.
Don't play your music too loud.
I shouted as loud as I could.
Can you speak louder?
Can you read the letter out loud?
He laughed out loud at his own joke.
She cried aloud in protest.
an alpaca coat
Jeremy's the alpha geek around here—he knows everything there is to know about computer programming.
The alpha male was a large black wolf.
Most alpha males need to control the women in their lives.
The names on the list are in alphabetical order.
arranged/listed/stored alphabetically
an alphanumeric code
the high altar (= the most important one in a particular church)
He was willing to sacrifice his happiness on the altar of fame.
Prices did not alter significantly during 2014.
He had altered so much I scarcely recognized him.
It doesn't alter the way I feel.
Nothing can alter the fact that we are to blame.
The landscape has been radically altered, severely damaging wildlife.
Superman's alter ego was Clark Kent.
major/minor alterations
They are making some alterations to the house.
an alteration in the baby's heartbeat
The dress will not need much alteration.
alternate layers of fruit and cream
John has to work on alternate Sundays.
He felt alternately hot and cold.
Alternate cubes of meat and slices of red pepper.
Alternate cubes of meat with slices of red pepper.
alternating dark and pale stripes
Dark stripes alternate with pale ones.
Her mood alternated between happiness and despair.
the alternation of day and night
We can agree to their terms or else pull out of the deal completely: those are the two alternatives.
We had no alternative but to fire Gibson.
There is a vegetarian alternative on the menu every day.
an alternative method of doing sth
Do you have an alternative solution?
alternative comedy/lifestyles/values
alternative energy (= electricity or power that is produced using the energy from the sun, wind, water, etc.)
The agency will make travel arrangements for you. Alternatively, you can organize your own transport.
Although the sun was shining, it wasn't very warm.
Although small, the kitchen is well designed.
Politicians have promised to improve road safety. So far, however, little has been achieved.
Despite clear evidence from road safety studies, no new measures have been introduced.
Politicians have promised to improve road safety. In spite of this / Despite this, little has been achieved so far.
Although politicians have promised to improve road safety, little has been achieved so far.
Some politicians claim that the new transport policy has been a success. In fact, it has been a total disaster.
Government campaigns have had a measure of success, but the fact remains that large numbers of accidents are still caused by careless drivers.
I felt he was wrong, although I didn't say so at the time.
Although/Even though/Though everyone played well, we lost the game.
We lost the game, although/even though/though everyone played well.
We are flying at an altitude of 6 000 metres.
The plane made a dive to a lower altitude.
Snow leopards live at high altitudes.
The athletes trained at altitude in Mexico City.
an alto saxophone
altruistic behaviour
aluminium saucepans/window frames
aluminium foil (= for example, for wrapping food in)
Harvard Alumni Association
Peter Black AM
Labour AMs
The film script is an amalgam of all three books.
A number of colleges have amalgamated to form the new university.
The company has now amalgamated with another local firm.
They decided to amalgamate the two schools.
The two companies were amalgamated into one.
This information will be amalgamated with information obtained earlier.
the amalgamation of small farms into larger units
The tournament is open to both amateurs and professionals.
This work was done by a bunch of amateurs!
New rules on amateurism allow payment for promotional work.
an amateur photographer
amateur athletics
Detectives described the burglary as 'crude and amateurish'.
his amatory exploits
Just the size of the place amazed her.
It never ceases to amaze me what some people will do for money.
What amazes me is how long she managed to hide it from us.
It amazed her that he could be so calm at such a time.
It amazes me to think what we have achieved this year.
an amazed silence
I was amazed at her knowledge of French literature.
We were amazed by his generosity.
I was banging so loudly I'm amazed (that) they didn't hear me.
She was amazed how little he had changed.
We were amazed to find that no one was hurt.
To my amazement, he remembered me.
She looked at him in amazement.
an amazing achievement/discovery/success/performance
That's amazing, isn't it?
It's amazing how quickly people adapt.
Amazingly, no one noticed.
The meal was amazingly cheap.
the British Ambassador to Italy/in Rome
a former ambassador to the UN
(figurative) The best ambassadors for the sport are the players.
amber beads
The traffic lights were on amber.
ambidextrous
ambivalent
ambient temperature/light/conditions
a compilation of ambient electronic music
soft, ambient lighting
the relaxed ambience of the city
Write clear definitions in order to avoid ambiguity.
There were several inconsistencies and ambiguities in her speech.
You must understand the ambiguity of my position.
an ambiguous word/term/statement
Her account was deliberately ambiguous.
His role has always been ambiguous.
an ambiguously worded agreement
This case falls clearly within the ambit of the 2001 act.
It had been her lifelong ambition.
political/literary/sporting ambitions
She never achieved her ambition of becoming a famous writer.
His burning ambition was to study medicine.
motivated by personal ambition
She was intelligent but suffered from a lack of ambition.
a fiercely ambitious young manager
They were very ambitious for their children (= they wanted them to be successful).
the government's ambitious plans for social reform
She seems to feel ambivalent about her new job.
He has an ambivalent attitude towards her.
Many people feel some ambivalence towards television and its effect on our lives.
We ambled down to the beach.
the ambulance service
ambulance staff
Call an ambulance!
an ambulatory corridor
an ambulatory care service
Two soldiers were killed in a terrorist ambush.
They were lying in ambush, waiting for the aid convoy.
The guerrillas ambushed them near the bridge.
(figurative) She was ambushed by reporters.
Steps have been taken to ameliorate the situation.
We ask this through our Lord, Amen.
Amen to that (= I certainly agree with that).
They had three very amenable children.
He seemed most amenable to my idea.
'Hamlet' is the least amenable of all Shakespeare's plays to being summarized.
He asked to see the amended version.
The campsite is close to all local amenities.
Many of the houses lacked even basic amenities (= baths, showers, hot water, etc.).
I'm American.
American culture/tourists
the US President
Have you ever been to the States?
She emigrated to America in 1995.
Do you have an American passport?
American football
I'm not American, I'm Canadian.
Latin American dance music
Quite a lot of South Americans study here.
an amethyst ring
an amiable tone of voice
Her parents seemed very amiable.
'That's fine,' he replied amiably.
an amicable relationship
An amicable settlement was reached.
He finished his speech amid tremendous applause.
The firm collapsed amid allegations of fraud.
The hotel was in a beautiful position amid lemon groves.
She sensed something was amiss and called the police.
A little luck wouldn't go amiss right now!
Would she take it amiss if I offered to help?
to make a table/dress/cake
to make bread/cement/paper
She makes her own clothes.
made in France (= on a label)
What's your shirt made of?
Wine is made from grapes.
The grapes are made into wine.
She made coffee for us all.
She made us all coffee.
Let me do the dishes.
Michael said he would do the kitchen floor.
It's your turn to do the table.
to do the shopping/cleaning/ironing/vacuuming
He makes a great lasagne.
I'll make breakfast while you're having a shower.
Can you get dinner while I put the kids to bed?
Sit down—I'll fix supper for you.
These regulations were made to protect children.
My lawyer has been urging me to make a will.
She has made (= directed or acted in) several movies.
The stone made a dent in the roof of the car.
The holes in the cloth were made by moths.
to make a noise/mess/fuss
She tried to make a good impression on the interviewer.
I keep making the same mistakes.
She made a good impression on the interviewer.
He did a beautiful drawing of a house.
Who's doing the food for the party?
Scientists disagree about how the universe was created.
Try this new dish, created by our head chef.
to develop new software
a factory that produces microchips
to generate electricity
Brainstorming is a good way of generating ideas.
Rearrange the letters to form a new word.
The chain is formed from 136 links.
The news made him very happy.
She made her objections clear.
He made it clear that he objected.
The full story was never made public.
Can you make yourself understood in Russian?
She couldn't make herself heard above the noise of the traffic.
The terrorists made it known that tourists would be targeted.
She always makes me laugh.
This dress makes me look fat.
What makes you say that (= why do you think so)?
Nothing will make me change my mind.
This isn't very important—I don't want to make an issue of it.
Don't make a habit of it.
You've made a terrible mess of this job.
It's important to try and make something of (= achieve sth in) your life.
We'll make a tennis player of you yet.
I made painting the house my project for the summer.
She made it her business to find out who was responsible.
Come on! It's time we made a start.
They made me repeat the whole story.
She must be made to comply with the rules.
He never cleans his room and his mother never tries to make him.
You've made my nose too big (= for example in a drawing).
He makes King Lear a truly tragic figure.
She made him her assistant.
She would have made an excellent teacher.
This room would make a nice office.
5 and 7 make 12.
A hundred cents make one euro.
That makes the third time he's failed his driving test!
She makes $100 000 a year.
to make a profit/loss
We need to think of ways to make money.
He made a fortune on the stock market.
He makes a living as a stand-up comic.
What time do you make it?
I make that exactly $50.
Do you think we'll make Dover by 12?
I'm sorry I couldn't make your party last night.
He'll never make (= get a place in) the team.
The story made (= appeared on) the front pages of the national newspapers.
We just managed to make the deadline (= to finish sth in time).
Good wine can make a meal.
The news really made my day.
He made as if to speak.
We were in a hurry so we had to make do with a quick snack.
She promised to make good the damage.
He never really made it as an actor.
The flight leaves in twenty minutes—we'll never make it.
I'm sorry I won't be able to make it (= for example, to a party) on Saturday.
The doctors think he's going to make it.
I don't know how I made it through the week.
He makes like he's the greatest actor of all time.
It's my first trip abroad so I'm going to make the most of it.
She doesn't know how to make the most of herself (= make herself appear in the best possible way).
He always makes much of his humble origins.
This movie will make or break him as a director.
It's make-or-break time for the company.
Constant arguing doesn't make for a happy marriage.
We're making our attic into an extra bedroom.
What do you make of it all?
I can't make anything of this note.
I don't know what to make of (= think of) the new manager.
How did he make out while his wife was away?
I could just make out a figure in the darkness.
I could hear voices but I couldn't make out what they were saying.
She was able to identify her attacker.
I couldn't see who was speaking, but I knew the voice.
She knows a bargain when she sees one.
I recognized him as soon as he came in the room.
The victim has not yet been named.
She's not as rich as people make out.
He made out that he had been robbed.
She makes herself out to be smarter than she really is.
He made out a cheque for €100.
The doctor made out a prescription for me.
How do you make that out (= what are your reasons for thinking that)?
I can't make out what she wants.
He made over the property to his eldest son.
He made towards the door.
Women make up 56% of the student numbers.
Their diet consists largely of vegetables.
The collection comprises 327 paintings.
Older people comprise a large proportion of those living in poverty.
People under the age of 40 constitute the majority of the labour force. *
Around 15% of our diet is composed of protein.
My work at that time just consisted of typing letters.
The group consists of/comprises/is made up of/is composed of ten people.
Ten people make up/constitute/comprise the group.
He made up some excuse about his daughter being sick.
I told the kids a story, making it up as I went along.
You made that up!
We need one more person to make up a team.
Can I leave early this afternoon and make up the time tomorrow?
We made up the bed in the spare room.
They made up a bed for me on the sofa.
The maid asked if she could make up the room.
Nothing can make up for the loss of a child.
After all the delays, we were anxious to make up for lost time.
Her enthusiasm makes up for her lack of experience.
How can I make up for the way I've treated you?
(informal) I'll make it up to you, I promise.
Why don't you two kiss and make up?
Has he made it up with her yet?
Have they made it up yet?
What make of car does he drive?
There are so many different makes to choose from.
a Swiss make of watch
strategic decision making
film-making
dressmaking
tea and coffee making facilities
the making of social policy
University was the making of Joe.
Her first novel has all the makings of a classic.
This model was two years in the making.
These events are history in the making.
The insurance company will refund any amount due to you.
You will receive a bill for the full amount.
an amount of time/money/information
We've had an enormous amount of help from people.
The server is designed to store huge amounts of data.
There's been any amount of research into the subject.
No amount of encouragement would make him jump into the pool.
His earnings are said to amount to £300 000 per annum.
They gave me some help in the beginning but it did not amount to much (= they did not give me much help).
Her answer amounted to a complete refusal.
Their actions amount to a breach of contract.
It'll cost a lot—well, take a lot of time, but it amounts to the same thing.
The letter gave her all the ammunition she needed.
This new discovery helps amnesiacs keep their memory.
The president granted a general amnesty for all political prisoners.
2 000 knives have been handed in during the month-long amnesty.
a house among the trees
They strolled among the crowds.
I found the letter amongst his papers.
It's OK, you're among friends now.
A British woman was among the survivors.
He was among the last to leave.
This attitude is common among the under-25s.
'What was wrong with the job?' 'Well, the pay wasn't good, among other things.'
Discuss it among yourselves (= with each other) first.
They divided the money up among their three children.
Mary rejected Tony's amorous advances.
an amorphous mass of cells with no identity at all
a 13 amp fuse/plug
an amped audience of hardcore fans
I get pretty amped up before I compete.
She works for Bond & Green.
amphibious vehicles
ample opportunity/evidence/space/proof
There was ample time to get to the airport.
Ample free parking is available.
an ample bosom
His efforts were amply rewarded.
to amplify a guitar/an electric current/a signal
She refused to amplify further.
You may need to amplify this point.
electronic amplification
That comment needs some amplification.
a 25 watt amplifier
He had to have both legs amputated.
They may have to amputate.
My funny drawings amused the kids.
This will amuse you.
It amused him to think that they were probably talking about him at that very moment.
She suggested several ideas to help Laura amuse the twins.
I'm sure I'll be able to amuse myself for a few hours.
There was an amused look on the President's face.
Janet was not amused (= she was annoyed or angry).
We were all amused at his stories.
He was amused to see how seriously she took the game.
Playing with water can keep children amused for hours.
She could not hide her amusement at the way he was dancing.
To my amusement he couldn't get the door open.
Her eyes twinkled with amusement.
traditional seaside amusements including boats, go-karts and a funfair
an amusing story/game/incident
I didn't find the joke at all amusing.
a funny story
He was a very funny guy.
It's a very amusing game to play.
It was a very entertaining evening.
a witty remark
a witty public speaker
a humorous look at the world of fashion
Many of the scenes in the book are richly comic.
an amusing party/game/evening
Unfortunately, my father is no soft touch.
Leaving your camera on the seat in the car is an open invitation to thieves.
The monarchy is seen by many people as an anachronism in the modern world.
She looks anaemic.
an anaemic performance
anaerobic bacteria
How long will I be under anaesthetic?
They gave him a general anaesthetic (= one that makes you become unconscious).
(a) local anaesthetic (= one that affects only a part of the body)
an anaesthetic drug/spray
An anagram of 'Elvis' is 'lives'.
the anal region
Sleep has often been thought of as being in some way analogous to death.
Aspirin is a mild analgesic.
analgesic drugs/effects
The teacher drew an analogy between the human heart and a pump.
There are no analogies with any previous legal cases.
learning by analogy
an analogue circuit/computer/signal
Scientists are attempting to compare features of extinct animals with living analogues.
The job involves gathering and analysing data.
He tried to analyse his feelings.
We need to analyse what went wrong.
These ideas will be examined in more detail in Chapter 10.
The job involves gathering and analysing data.
The government will review the situation later in the year.
We will study the report carefully before making a decision.
This topic will be discussed at greater length in the next chapter.
statistical analysis
The book is an analysis of poverty and its causes.
The blood samples are sent to the laboratory for analysis.
You can ask for a chemical analysis of your tap water.
In analysis the individual resolves difficult emotional conflicts.
In the final analysis, it's a matter of personal choice.
a political/food analyst
City analysts forecast huge profits this year.
She has a clear analytical mind.
an analytic approach to the problem
analytical methods of research
web/business analytics
anaphylactic shock
The overthrow of the military regime was followed by a period of anarchy.
There was complete anarchy in the classroom when their usual teacher was away.
Racial prejudice is (an) anathema to me.
the anatomy of the horse
human anatomy
Various parts of his anatomy were clearly visible.
an anatomy of the current recession
anatomical diagrams
His ancestors had come to America from Ireland.
a reptile that was the common ancestor of lizards and turtles
The ancestor of the modern bicycle was called a penny-farthing.
her ancestral home (= that had belonged to her ancestors)
to have Scottish ancestry
He was able to trace his ancestry back over 1 000 years.
to drop anchor
The ship lay at anchor two miles off the rocky coast.
We weighed anchor (= pulled it out of the water).
the anchor of the family
We anchored off the coast of Spain.
Make sure the table is securely anchored.
Her novels are anchored in everyday experience.
She anchored the evening news for seven years.
anchorage points for a baby's car seat
a pizza topped with cheese and anchovies
ancient history/civilization
ancient Greece
an ancient oak tree
ancient monuments
(humorous) He's ancient—he must be at least fifty!
the area where the market was anciently held (= in ancient times)
ancillary staff/services/equipment
ancillary workers in the health service such as cooks and cleaners
ancillary rights
Did you bring the contract and (all) that?
He wants a big house and an expensive car and all the rest of it.
That was a game and a half!
How's it going? You know—love, life and all that jazz.
You're a suspect, not a detective, and don't you forget it.
Have you got his name and address and everything?
She told me about the baby and everything.
This is a strange business and no mistake.
We discussed everything—when to go, what to see and so on.
You can't go and that's flat!
'It cost 250 pounds…' 'And the rest, and the rest!'
She likes nice clothes and things like that.
I've been busy shopping and things.
It's full of old toys, books and what not.
There is no help for those with lots of luggage and/or small children.
I've downloaded dozens of apps on my Android phone.
anecdotal evidence
This reaction has been reported anecdotally by a number of patients.
amusing anecdotes about his brief career as an actor
This research is based on anecdote, not fact.
They started life anew in Canada.
John is no angel, believe me (= he does not behave well).
Thanks Dad, you're an angel.
Be an angel and make me a cup of coffee.
an angelic smile
Jan slammed her fist on the desk in anger.
the growing anger and frustration of young unemployed people
He was filled with anger at the way he had been treated.
The question clearly angered him.
a 45° angle
The tower of Pisa leans at an angle.
The plane was coming in at a steep angle.
His hair was sticking up at all angles.
The photo was taken from an unusual angle.
We need a new angle for our next advertising campaign.
You can look at the issue from many different angles.
The article concentrates on the human angle (= the part that concerns people's emotions) of the story.
He angled his chair so that he could sit and watch her.
The programme is angled towards younger viewers.
She was angling for sympathy.
the Anglican Church
Many French people try to avoid Anglicisms such as 'weekend' and 'shopping'.
Gutmann anglicized his name to Goodman.
Anglo-American
Anglo-Indian
Anglo-Saxon kings
Her father was an Anglophobe.
anglophone communities
an angora sweater
Her behaviour really made me angry.
Thousands of angry demonstrators filled the square.
The comments provoked an angry response from union leaders.
Please don't be angry with me. It wasn't my fault.
I was very angry with myself for making such a stupid mistake.
He felt angry at the injustice of the situation.
The passengers grew angry about the delay.
Please don't be angry with me.
He got mad and walked out.
She's mad at me for being late.
Dad'll go mad when he sees what you've done.
She was very indignant at the way she had been treated.
I was quite cross with him for being late.
irate customers
an irate letter
Some senators reacted angrily to the President's remarks.
He swore angrily.
songs full of teenage angst
a generation of angst-ridden adolescents
Stefan plays the role of a rebellious, angsty outsider who joins a terrorist cell.
angsty poetry/drama/lyrics
He groaned in anguish.
Tears of anguish filled her eyes.
anguished cries
an anguished letter from her prison cell
an angular face
a tall angular woman
a design of large angular shapes
The human race has enough weapons to annihilate itself.
She annihilated her opponent, who failed to win a single game.
the annihilation of the whole human race
the animals and birds of South America
a small furry animal
Fish oils are less saturated than animal fats.
domestic animals such as dogs and cats
the animal kingdom
This product has not been tested on animals.
Humans are the only animals to have developed speech.
The person who did this is an animal, a brute.
She's not a political animal.
The government that followed the election was a very different animal.
animal desires/passion/instincts
animal magnetism (= a quality in sb that other people find attractive, usually in a sexual way)
His research work was attacked by animal rights activists.
A smile suddenly animated her face.
animate beings
an animated discussion/conversation
Her face suddenly became animated.
animated cartoons/graphics/models
People were talking animatedly.
His face was drained of all colour and animation.
computer/cartoon animation
The electronic dictionary included some animations.
He felt no animosity towards his critics.
personal animosities between members of the two groups
on the anniversary of his wife's death
to celebrate your wedding anniversary
the theatre's 25th anniversary celebrations
to sprain/break your ankle
My ankles have swollen.
We found ourselves ankle-deep in water (= the water came up to our ankles).
ankle boots (= that cover the ankle)
a girl in a blue dress and ankle socks
His deeds went down in the annals of British history.
Annals of Science, vol. viii
Germany annexed Austria in 1938.
Our rooms were in the annexe.
The priest anointed her with oil.
They haven't formally announced their engagement yet.
(figurative) A ring at the doorbell announced Jack's arrival.
We are pleased to announce that all five candidates were successful.
It was announced that new speed restrictions would be introduced.
The government yesterday announced to the media plans to create a million new jobs.
to declare war
The painting was declared to be a forgery.
He has already stated his intention to run for election.
During our meeting, he indicated his willingness to cooperate.
Has our flight been announced yet?
'Now boarding flight 897, destination Seattle,' the loudspeaker announced.
They announced that the flight would be delayed.
'I've given up smoking,' she announced.
She announced that she'd given up smoking.
Would you announce the guests as they arrive?(= call out their names, for example at a formal party)
to make an announcement
Today's announcement of a peace agreement came after weeks of discussion.
Announcements of births, marriages and deaths appear in some newspapers.
A government spokesperson made a statement to the press.
She made helpful comments on my work.
the announcement of a peace agreement
He made a number of rude remarks about the food.
the declaration of war
He began by making a few general observations about the report.
Announcement of the verdict was accompanied by shouts and cheers.
It will be published with annotations and an index.
an annotated edition
His constant joking was beginning to annoy her.
It really annoys me when people forget to say thank you.
It annoys me to see him getting ahead of me.
He swatted a fly that was annoying him.
He could not conceal his annoyance at being interrupted.
Much to our annoyance, they decided not to come after all.
She stamped her foot in annoyance.
The delay is now shorter but still an annoyance.
He was beginning to get very annoyed with me about my carelessness.
I was annoyed with myself for giving in so easily.
I bet she was annoyed at having to write it out again.
I was annoyed that they hadn't turned up.
He was annoyed to find himself going red.
This interruption is very annoying.
Her most annoying habit was eating with her mouth open.
an annual meeting/event/report
an annual income/subscription/budget
an average annual growth rate of 8%
annual rainfall
The exhibition is held annually.
Their marriage was annulled after just six months.
the many anomalies in the tax system
the apparent anomaly that those who produced the wealth, the workers, were the poorest
See you anon.
Names of people in the book were changed to preserve anonymity.
the anonymity of the city (= where people do not know each other)
(especially NAmE) He agreed to give an interview on condition of anonymity (= if his name was not mentioned).
the anonymity of the hotel decor
an anonymous donor
The money was donated by a local businessman who wishes to remain anonymous.
an anonymous letter
long stretches of dull and anonymous countryside
She's anorexic.
Would you like another drink?
'Finished?' 'No, I've got another three questions to do.'
We've still got another (= a further) forty miles to go.
'It's a bill.' 'Oh no, not another!'
I got another of those calls yesterday.
Let's do it another time.
We need another computer (= a new one).
We can try that—but whether it'll work is another matter.
The room's too small. Let's see if they've got another one.
I don't like this room. I'm going to ask for another.
She's going to be another Madonna (= as famous as her).
There'll never be another like him.
We've all got problems of one kind or another.
The bills kept coming in, one after another.
I rang the bell, but there was no answer.
I can't easily give an answer to your question.
Have you had an answer to your letter?
As if in answer to our prayers, she offered to lend us £10 000.
She had no answer to the accusations.
Write your answers on the sheet provided.
Do you know the answer (= the right one) to question 12?
There is no easy answer.
This could be the answer to all our problems.
The obvious answer would be to cancel the party.
The new theme park will be Britain's answer to Disneyland.
He thinks he knows all the answers.
You're coming and I won't take no for an answer!
I repeated the question, but she didn't answer.
You haven't answered my question.
to answer a letter/an advertisement
to answer the phone (= to pick up the phone when it rings)
to answer the door (= to open the door when sb knocks/rings)
My prayers have been answered (= I have got what I wanted).
He refused to answer the charges against him.
Come on, answer me! Where were you?
He answered me with a smile.
'I'd prefer to walk,' she answered.
'I'd prefer to walk,' she answered him.
She answered that she would prefer to walk.
Answer me this: how did they know we were here?
Does this answer your requirements?
A child answering the description of the missing boy was found safe and well in London yesterday.
He was given the chance to answer back in a radio interview.
Don't answer back!
Stop answering your mother back!
You will have to answer for your behaviour one day.
This government has a lot to answer for (= is responsible for a lot of bad things).
I can answer for her honesty.
I agree, but I can't answer for my colleagues.
All sales clerks answer to the store manager.
She was a free agent, answerable to no one for her behaviour.
Ministers must be made answerable for their decisions.
I called several times, but only got the answering machine.
She left her name and number on his answerphone.
an ants' nest
an ant colony
Not wishing to antagonize her further, he said no more.
The antagonism he felt towards his old enemy was still very strong.
the racial antagonisms in society
Antarctic explorers
anteroom
antenatal
antedate
the laws of the antebellum American South
In 'He grabbed the ball and threw it in the air', 'ball' is the antecedent of 'it'.
antecedent events
antenatal care/classes/screening
an antenatal clinic
(figurative) The minister was praised for his acute political antennae (= ability to understand complicated political situations).
radio antennas
The European anthem was played at the opening and closing ceremonies.
anthropology
anti-tank weapons
antisocial
anti-hero
anticlimax
antifreeze
anti-aircraft fire/guns/missiles
an anti-lock braking system or ABS
anti-Semitic propaganda
He was a notorious anti-Semite.
anti-tank missiles/mines
antibacterial treatments
The doctor put her on antibiotics (= told her to take them).
an antibiotic drug
effective antibiotic treatment
We don't anticipate any major problems.
Our anticipated arrival time is 8.30.
The eagerly anticipated movie will be released next month.
They anticipate moving to bigger premises by the end of the year.
I don't anticipate it being a problem.
We anticipate that sales will rise next year.
It is anticipated that inflation will stabilize at 3%.
We need someone who can anticipate and respond to changes in the fashion industry.
Try and anticipate what the interviewers will ask.
We eagerly anticipated the day we would leave school.
The more I anticipated arriving somewhere, the more disappointed I was.
When Scott reached the South Pole he found that Amundsen had anticipated him.
a fast anticipatory movement by the goalkeeper
He bought extra food in anticipation of more people coming than he'd invited.
happy/eager/excited anticipation
The courtroom was filled with anticipation.
anticlerical movements in the seventeenth century
Travelling in Europe was something of an anticlimax after the years he'd spent in Africa.
a sense/feeling of anticlimax
Turn the key anticlockwise/in an anticlockwise direction.
The bank staff got up to all sorts of antics to raise money for charity.
antidepressant drugs
There is no known antidote to the poison.
A Mediterranean cruise was the perfect antidote to a long cold winter.
antiglobalization protests at the G8 summit
the antiglobalization movement
antihistamine cream/injections/shots
personal/mutual antipathy
a growing antipathy towards the idea
antipathetic to change
an antique mahogany desk
Priceless antiques were destroyed in the fire.
an antique shop (= one that sells antiques)
an antique dealer/antiques dealer (= a person who sells antiques)
The statue was brought to Rome in antiquity.
A number of the monuments are of considerable antiquity.
Egyptian/Roman antiquities
antiretroviral drugs
antiseptic cream/lotion/wipes
Cover the burn with an antiseptic dressing.
antisocial behaviour
They'll think you're being antisocial if you don't go.
Love is the antithesis of selfishness.
Students finishing their education at 16 is the very antithesis of what society needs.
There is an antithesis between the needs of the state and the needs of the people.
antivirus software
'Old' has two possible antonyms: 'young' and 'new'.
acute/intense/deep anxiety
Some hospital patients experience high levels of anxiety.
If you're worried about your health, share your anxieties with your doctor.
the candidate's anxiety to win the vote
the people's anxiety for the war to end
He seemed anxious about the meeting.
Parents are naturally anxious for their children.
There were a few anxious moments in the baseball game.
an anxious look/face/expression
She was anxious to finish school and get a job.
He was anxious not to be misunderstood.
There are plenty of graduates anxious for work.
I'm anxious for her to do as little as possible.
She was anxious that he should meet her father.
to ask/look/wait anxiously
Residents are anxiously awaiting a decision.
I didn't eat any meat.
Are there any stamps?
I've got hardly any money.
You can't go out without any shoes.
He forbids any talking in class.
She asked if we had any questions.
I've got some paper if you want it.
Would you like some milk in your tea?
Take any book you like.
Any colour will do.
Any teacher will tell you that students learn at different rates.
It isn't just any day—it's my birthday!
We need some more paint; there isn't any left.
I need some stamps. Are there any in your bag?
Please let me know how many people are coming, if any.
She spent hardly any of the money.
He returned home without any of the others.
I've got plenty of paper—would you like some?
I'll take any you don't want.
'Which colour do you want?' 'Any of them will do.'
I suggested sharing the cost, but he wasn't having any of it.
He wasn't any good at French.
I can't run any faster.
Is your father feeling any better?
I don't want any more.
If you don't tell them, nobody will be any the wiser (= they will not find out about it).
That won't hurt you any.
The letter should arrive any day now.
Any fool could tell she was lying.
'Any luck?' 'No, they're all too busy to help.'
She doesn't live here any more.
Why doesn't he speak to me any more?
Now she won't have to go out to work any more.
The books were piled up all over the floor any old how.
Any old room would have done.
I think we've finished item four. Now is there any other business?
Call me any time.
Will she be back anytime soon?
We don't want any Tom, Dick or Harry using the club bar.
Is there anybody who can help me?
Anybody can use the pool—you don't need to be a member.
She wasn't anybody before she got that job.
What will happen next is anybody's guess.
She piled the papers in a heap on her desk, just anyhow.
I can't see it anywhere.
Did you go anywhere interesting?
Many of these animals are not found anywhere else.
He's never been anywhere outside Britain.
Put the box down anywhere.
An accident can happen anywhere.
I don't have anywhere to stay.
Do you know anywhere I can buy a second-hand computer?
Is anyone there?
Does anyone else want to come?
Did anyone see you?
Hardly anyone came.
I forbid anyone to touch that clock.
Anybody can see that it's wrong.
The exercises are so simple that almost anyone can do them.
She wasn't anyone before she got that job.
Would you like anything else?
There's never anything worth watching on TV.
If you remember anything at all, please let us know.
We hope to prevent anything unpleasant from happening.
I'm so hungry, I'll eat anything.
Is there anything (= any truth) in these rumours?
The hotel was anything but cheap.
It wasn't cheap. Anything but.
He isn't anything like my first boss.
I felt as pleased as anything.
They're always slagging me off like anything.
The book wasn't anything like as good as her first one.
I wouldn't give it up for anything.
If you want to call a meeting or anything, just let me know.
Almost anything goes these days.
Let's say you run a store in Anytown, USA.
It's too expensive and anyway the colour doesn't suit you.
It's too late now, anyway.
The water was cold but I took a shower anyway.
I'm afraid we can't come, but thanks for the invitation anyway.
Anyway, let's forget about that for the moment.
Anyway, I'd better go now—I'll see you tomorrow.
She works in a bank. She did when I last saw her, anyway.
to continue/grow/proceed/develop apace
Their devotion was apparent.
Then, for no apparent reason, the train suddenly stopped.
It was apparent from her face that she was really upset.
It soon became apparent to everyone that he couldn't sing.
It was quite clear to me that she was lying.
It's obvious from what he said that something is wrong.
The orchestra played with evident enjoyment.
He made it very plain that he wanted us to leave.
My parents were concerned at my apparent lack of enthusiasm for school.
Apparently they are getting divorced soon.
I thought she had retired, but apparently she hasn't.
He paused, apparently lost in thought.
The two houses stood 500 metres apart.
Their birthdays are only three days apart.
(figurative) The two sides in the talks are still a long way apart (= are far from reaching an agreement).
We're living apart now.
Over the years, Rosie and I had drifted apart.
She keeps herself apart from other people.
I can't tell the twins apart (= see the difference between them).
The whole thing just came apart in my hands.
We had to take the engine apart.
When his wife died, his world fell apart.
Victoria apart, not one of them seems suitable for the job.
I've finished apart from the last question.
She wrote all of the songs on the album except for the final track.
Apart from / aside from the final track, all of the songs on the album were written by her.
The songwriting— with a few minor exceptions —is of a very high quality.
With only one or two exceptions, the songwriting is of a very high quality.
The majority of the compositions are less than three minutes long, with the notable exception of the title track.
With the exception of the title track, this album is a huge disappointment.
Here is a list of all the band's CDs, excluding unofficial 'bootleg' recordings.
Apart from their house in London, they also have a villa in Spain.
It was a difficult time. Apart from everything else, we had financial problems.
You've got to help. Apart from anything else you're my brother.
Sit here beside me.
What other sports do you play besides hockey?
I don't think I'll come on Saturday. I have a lot of work to do. Besides, I don't really like parties.
self-catering holiday apartments
You can visit the whole palace except for the private apartments.
The illness made her apathetic and unwilling to meet people.
There is widespread apathy among the electorate.
the great apes (= for example, orang-utans or chimpanzees)
For years the British film industry merely aped Hollywood.
We used to ape the teacher's southern accent.
She didn't appear at all surprised at the news.
It appears unlikely that interest rates will fall further.
He appears a perfectly normal person.
She appeared to be in her late thirties.
They appeared not to know what was happening.
There appears to have been a mistake.
It appears that there has been a mistake.
It would appear that this was a major problem.
Most cybercrime involves traditional crimes, such as theft and fraud, being committed in new ways. Phishing is perhaps / possibly / probably the best-known example of this.
It seems / appears that the more personal data which organizations collect, the more opportunity there is for this data to be lost or stolen.
It seems clear that introducing national ID cards would do little to prevent identity theft.
It could be argued that the introduction of national ID cards might actually make identity theft easier.
It is possible that / It may be that the only way to protect ourselves against DNA identity theft is to avoid the creation of national DNA databases.
Three days later a rash appeared.
A bus appeared around the corner.
Smoke appeared on the horizon.
When did mammals appear on the earth?
This problem first appeared in the inner cities.
His new book will be appearing in the spring.
It was too late to prevent the story from appearing in the national newspapers.
He has appeared in over 60 movies.
She regularly appears on TV.
Next month he will be appearing as Obama in a new play on Broadway.
By ten o'clock Lee still hadn't appeared.
Your name will appear at the front of the book.
A man will appear in court today charged with the murder.
She appeared on six charges of theft.
He has been asked to appear as a witness for the defence.
James Gilbert is the lawyer appearing for the defendant.
the physical/outward/external appearance of sth
She had never been greatly concerned about her appearance.
The dog was similar in general appearance to a spaniel.
He gave every appearance of (= seemed very much to be) enjoying himself.
Judging by appearances can be misleading.
To all appearances (= as far as people could tell) he was dead.
When she lost all her money, she was determined to keep up appearances (= hide the true situation and pretend that everything was going well).
The sudden appearance of a security guard caused them to drop the money and run.
I don't want to go to the party, but I suppose I'd better put in an appearance (= go there for a short time).
the early appearance of daffodils in spring
the appearance of organic vegetables in the supermarkets
The Dutch player will make his first appearance for Liverpool this Saturday.
The singer's first public appearance was at the age of eight.
the defendant's appearance in court
the appearance of claims about the minister's private life in the press
For flash photography, set the aperture at f.5.6.
the apex of the roof/triangle
(figurative) At 37, she'd reached the apex of her career.
the aphrodisiac qualities of ginseng
The company is opening up its API so that outside developers can use it to build their own programs.
Sterling and Walcott scored a goal apiece.
The largest stones weigh over five tonnes apiece.
a planning/passport application
an application form (= a piece of paper on which to apply for sth)
an application for membership/a loan/a licence
His application to the court for bail has been refused.
Further information is available on application to the principal.
the application of new technology to teaching
The invention would have a wide range of applications in industry.
It took three applications of paint to cover the graffiti.
lotion for external application only (= to be put on the skin, not swallowed)
strict application of the law
a database application
Success as a writer demands great application.
applied mathematics (= as used by engineers, etc.)
with considerable/great/remarkable aplomb
He delivered the speech with his usual aplomb.
Civilization is on the brink of apocalypse.
an environmental apocalypse
an apocalyptic view of history
apocalyptic warnings of the end of society
an apocalyptic scene
Most of the stories about him are apocryphal.
They have appointed a new head teacher at my son's school.
She has recently been appointed to the committee.
They appointed him (as) captain of the English team.
A lawyer was appointed to represent the child.
A date for the meeting is still to be appointed.
Everyone was assembled at the appointed time.
Why should I apologize?
Go and apologize to her.
We apologize for the late departure of this flight.
I'm so/terribly/very sorry I'm late.
I do apologize. I'll get you another cup.
I must apologize for keeping you waiting.(BrE)
We would like to apologize on behalf of the management.
We would like to offer/Please accept our apologies for the inconvenience.
That's all right/OK.
No problem.
Don't worry about it.
It's fine, really.
'Sorry,' she said, with an apologetic smile.
They were very apologetic about the trouble they'd caused.
'I'm sorry I'm late,' he murmured apologetically.
His book was seen as an apologia for the war.
to offer/make/demand/accept an apology
You owe him an apology for what you said.
We should like to offer our apologies for the delay to your flight today.
We received a letter of apology.
The meeting started with apologies (= the names of people who said they could not go to the meeting).
(formal) She made her apologies and left early.
He was apoplectic with rage at the decision.
an apoplectic attack/fit
an apostle of free enterprise
the apotheosis of a Roman emperor
Have you got the dictionary app on your phone?
The brutality of the crime has appalled the public.
The idea of sharing a room appalled her.
It appalled me that they could simply ignore the problem.
an appalled expression/silence
We watched appalled as the child ran in front of the car.
They were appalled at the waste of recyclable material.
The prisoners were living in appalling conditions.
The bus service is appalling now.
appallingly bad/difficult
The essay was appallingly written.
party apparatchiks
a piece of laboratory apparatus
Firefighters needed breathing apparatus to enter the burning house.
camping equipment
a piece of equipment
household cleaning materials
teaching material
Skiing gear can be expensive.
a first-aid kit
a tool kit
breathing apparatus for firefighters
laboratory apparatus
the power of the state apparatus
the sensory apparatus
The store sells women's and children's apparel.
lords and ladies in fine apparel
(BrE) to lodge an appeal
(NAmE) to file an appeal
(BrE) an appeal court/judge
(NAmE) an appeals court/judge
an appeal against the 3-match ban
mass/wide/popular appeal
The Beatles have never really lost their appeal.
The prospect of living in a city holds little appeal for me.
a look of silent appeal
to launch a TV appeal for donations to the charity
The child's mother made an emotional appeal on TV for his return.
The police made an appeal to the public to remain calm.
I relied on an appeal to his finer feelings.
He said he would appeal after being found guilty on four counts of murder.
The company is appealing against the ruling.
The company has ten days to appeal the decision to the tribunal.
The prospect of a long wait in the rain did not appeal.
The design has to appeal to all ages and social groups.
I am appealing (= asking for money) on behalf of the famine victims.
Community leaders appealed for calm (= urged people to remain calm).
Police have appealed for witnesses to come forward.
Organizers appealed to the crowd not to panic.
They needed to appeal to his sense of justice.
Spending the holidays in Britain wasn't a prospect that I found particularly appealing.
'Would you really help?' he said with an appealing look.
The dog looked up at her appealingly.
The move was widely seen as an attempt to appease critics of the regime.
a policy of appeasement
Footnotes have been appended to the document.
He had to have his appendix out (= removed).
Full details are given in Appendix 3.
rights appertaining to the property
These figures appertain to last year's sales.
He suffered from headaches and loss of appetite.
The walk gave me a good appetite.
Don't spoil your appetite by eating between meals.
sexual appetites
The preview was intended to whet your appetite (= make you want more).
The public have an insatiable appetite for scandal.
He started to applaud and the others joined in.
They rose to applaud the speaker.
She was applauded as she came on stage.
We applaud her decision.
His efforts to improve the situation are to be applauded.
I applaud her for having the courage to refuse.
Give her a big round of applause!
The audience broke into rapturous applause.
Peel and core the apples.
an apple pie
apple sauce
a garden with three apple trees
They really are apples and oranges.
They are both great but you can't compare apples and oranges.
a slice of apple pie
Who could argue against motherhood and apple pie?
Everything was in apple-pie order.
electrical/household appliances
They sell a wide range of domestic appliances —washing machines, dishwashers and so on.
Give details of children where applicable (= if you have any).
Much of the form was not applicable (= did not apply) to me.
The new approach had wide applicability to all sorts of different problems.
There were over 500 applicants for the job.
Use the applicator to apply cream to the affected area.
You should apply in person/by letter.
to apply for a job/passport/grant
to apply to a company/university
He has applied to join the army.
to apply economic sanctions/political pressure
The new technology was applied to farming.
Apply the cream sparingly to your face and neck.
Special conditions apply if you are under 18.
What I am saying applies only to some of you.
The word 'unexciting' could never be applied to her novels.
You would pass your exams if you applied yourself.
We applied our minds to finding a solution to our problem.
to apply the brakes (of a vehicle)
Pressure applied to the wound will stop the bleeding.
the new appointee to the post
I've got a dental appointment at 3 o'clock.
to make/keep an appointment
Viewing is by appointment only (= only at a time that has been arranged in advance).
an appointment with my lawyer
an appointment for a blood test
She made an appointment for her son to see the doctor.
her recent appointment to the post
his appointment as principal
a permanent/first appointment
He's trying to get a job in a bank.
a senior position in a large corporation
a key post in the new government
We have several vacancies for casual workers.
This is a permanent appointment, requiring commitment and hard work.
We heard the sound of an approaching car/a car approaching.
Winter is approaching.
As you approach the town, you'll see the college on the left.
We have been approached by a number of companies that are interested in our product.
I'd like to ask his opinion but I find him difficult to approach (= not easy to talk to in a friendly way).
She approached the bank for a loan.
profits approaching 30 million dollars
Few writers approach his richness of language.
What's the best way of approaching this problem?
She took the wrong approach in her dealings with them.
The school has decided to adopt a different approach to discipline.
She hadn't heard his approach and jumped as the door opened.
the approach of spring
The club has made an approach to a local company for sponsorship.
She resented his persistent approaches.
All the approaches to the palace were guarded by troops.
a new approach road to the port
to begin the final approach to the runway
That's the nearest approach to an apology you'll get from him.
The programme gives the facts but does not apportion blame.
They apportioned the land among members of the family.
The apportionment of seats in the House of Representatives is based on the population of each state.
In the phrase 'Paris, the capital of France', 'the capital of France' is in apposition to 'Paris'.
He had read many detailed critical appraisals of her work.
She was honest in her appraisal of her team's chances.
I have my appraisal today.
staff/performance appraisal
an appraising glance/look
His eyes coolly appraised the young woman before him.
She stepped back to appraise her workmanship.
Managers must appraise all staff.
The new regulations will not make an appreciable difference to most people.
an appreciable effect/increase/amount
The risk of infection is appreciably higher among children.
You can't really appreciate foreign literature in translation.
His talents are not fully appreciated in that company.
Her family doesn't appreciate her.
I'd appreciate some help.
Your support is greatly appreciated.
Thanks for coming. I appreciate it.
I would appreciate it if you paid in cash.
I don't appreciate being treated like a second-class citizen.
We would appreciate you letting us know of any problems.
Thank you very much. It's very kind of you./You really shouldn't have.
Thank you so much for coming. It was really nice to see you.
I'm very grateful.
I do appreciate your help.
That's all right.
Don't mention it.
No problem.
My pleasure.
I'm glad I could help.
What I failed to appreciate was the distance between the two cities.
I don't think you appreciate how expensive it will be.
We didn't fully appreciate that he was seriously ill.
Their investments have appreciated over the years.
She shows little appreciation of good music.
The crowd murmured in appreciation.
I had no appreciation of the problems they faced.
Please accept this gift in appreciation of all you've done for us.
The company was very appreciative of my efforts.
an appreciative audience/smile
appreciative laughter/comments
There is growing apprehension that fighting will begin again.
He watched the election results with some apprehension.
an apprehensive face/glance/look
I was a little apprehensive about the effects of what I had said.
You have no reason to be apprehensive of the future.
She was deeply apprehensive that something might go wrong.
an apprentice electrician/chef
She was in the second year of her apprenticeship as a carpenter.
He had served his apprenticeship as a plumber.
Despite being a big star, she's very approachable.
an approachable piece of music
The summit was approachable only from the south.
an appropriate response/measure/method
Now that the problem has been identified, appropriate action can be taken.
Is now an appropriate time to make a speech?
Please debit my Mastercard/Visa/American Express card ( delete as appropriate) (= cross out the options that do not apply).
Jeans are not appropriate for a formal party.
The book was written in a style appropriate to the age of the children.
The government has been accused of not responding appropriately to the needs of the homeless.
The chain of volcanoes is known, appropriately enough, as the 'Ring of Fire'.
He was accused of appropriating club funds.
Some of the opposition party's policies have been appropriated by the government.
Five million dollars have been appropriated for research into the disease.
dishonest appropriation of property
a meeting to discuss the appropriation of funds
an appropriation of £20 000 for payment of debts
She desperately wanted to win her father's approval.
Do the plans meet with your approval?
Several people nodded in approval.
The plan will be submitted to the committee for official approval.
parliamentary/congressional/government approval
Senior management have given their seal of approval (= formal approval) to the plans.
I can't agree to anything without my partner's approval.
planning approvals
The proposal is subject to approval by the shareholders (= they need to agree to it).
They required/received approval for the proposal from the shareholders.
I told my mother I wanted to leave school but she didn't approve.
Do you approve of my idea?
She doesn't approve of me leaving school this year.
(formal) She doesn't approve of my leaving school this year.
The course is approved by the Department for Education.
He gave me an approving nod.
She looked at him approvingly and smiled.
Contents: approx 6 000 beads
an approximate number/total/cost
The cost given is only approximate.
Use these figures as an approximate guide in your calculations.
The animals were reared in conditions which approximated the wild as closely as possible.
The total cost will approximate £15 billion.
His story approximates to the facts that we already know.
a formula for approximating the weight of a horse
The journey took approximately seven hours.
That's just an approximation, you understand.
Our results should be a good approximation of the true state of affairs.
a rate of 26.4% APR
dried apricots
The room was painted apricot and white.
She was born in April.
(BrE) The meeting is on the fifth of April/April the fifth.
(NAmE) The meeting is on April fifth.
We went to Japan last April.
I arrived at the end of April.
last April's election
April showers (= light rain that falls in the spring)
an April wedding
Apropos (of) what you were just saying…
a particularly apt description/name/comment
apt to be forgetful/careless
Babies are apt to put objects into their mouths.
the aptly named Grand Hotel
an aptitude test (= one designed to show whether sb has the natural ability for a particular job or course of education)
She showed a natural aptitude for the work.
His aptitude for dealing with children got him the job.
an aquamarine sea
aquatic plants/life/ecosystems
aquatic sports
Arab countries
the Arabian peninsula
Arab children
Arabic script
Arabic poetry
arable farming/farms/crops
arable land/fields (= used or suitable for growing crops)
an Aran sweater
The party was arranged quickly.
She arranged a loan with the bank.
Can I arrange an appointment for Monday?
We met at six, as arranged.
We've still got to arrange how to get to the airport.
Have you arranged to meet him?
I've arranged that we can borrow their car.
We arranged for a car to collect us from the airport.
I've arranged with the neighbours about feeding the cat while we are away.
The books are arranged alphabetically by author.
I must arrange my financial affairs and make a will.
She arranged the flowers in a vase.
He arranged traditional folk songs for the piano.
travel arrangements
I'll make arrangements for you to be met at the airport.
She's happy with her unusual living arrangements.
new security arrangements
There are special arrangements for people working overseas.
We can come to an arrangement over the price.
an arrangement between the school and the parents
Guided tours are available by prior arrangement with the museum.
They had an arrangement that the children would spend two weeks with each parent.
plans of the possible seating arrangements
the art of flower arrangement
The law is the final arbiter of what is considered obscene.
an arbiter of taste/style/fashion
to arbitrate in a dispute
A committee was created to arbitrate between management and the unions.
Both sides in the dispute have agreed to go to arbitration.
an arboricultural specialist
the arc of a rainbow
The beach swept around in an arc.
arcade games
Go through the arch and follow the path.
Marble Arch is a famous London landmark.
the delicate arch of her eyebrows
The cat arched its back and hissed.
Tall trees arched over the path.
an arch tone of voice
'Guess what?' she said archly.
archbishop
arch-enemy
archaeological excavations/evidence
'Thou art' is an archaic form of 'you are'.
The system is archaic and unfair and needs changing.
archaic art
the Archangel Gabriel
the Archbishop of Canterbury (= the head of the Church of England)
Archduke Franz Ferdinand
a chair with an arched back
He was one of the principal architects of the revolution.
Jones was the architect of the team's first goal.
architectural features
The house is of little interest architecturally.
to study architecture
the architecture of the eighteenth century
modern architecture
The Beatles were the archetypal pop group.
She is the archetype of an American movie star.
the National Sound Archive
archive film
The BBC's archives are bulging with material.
We went through a stone archway into the courtyard.
Arctic explorers
TV pictures showed the arctic conditions.
an ardent supporter of European unity
an arduous journey across the Andes
The work was arduous.
mountainous/desert areas
rural/urban/inner-city areas
There is heavy traffic in the downtown area tonight.
She knows the local area very well.
John is the London area manager.
Wreckage from the plane was scattered over a wide area.
The farm and surrounding area were flooded.
the hotel reception area
a play/parking/dining area
This would be a good place for a picnic.
They've chosen a site for the new school.
Move the cursor to a blank area on the screen.
From his position at the top of the hill, he could see the harbour.
the point at which the river divides
The company is moving to a new location.
the scene of the accident
The lake is one of the local beauty spots.
Move the cursor to a blank area of the computer screen.
The tumour had not spread to other areas of the body.
the areas of training and development
Finance is Mark's area.
The big growth area of recent years has been in health clubs.
the area of a triangle
The room is 12 square metres in area.
He shot from just outside the area.
Aren't I clever?
a concert at Wembley Arena
the political/international arena
It is arguable that giving too much detail may actually be confusing.
It is arguable whether the case should have ever gone to trial (= perhaps it should not have).
He is arguably the best actor of his generation.
My brothers are always arguing.
We're always arguing with each other about money.
I don't want to argue with you—just do it!
They argued for the right to strike.
She argued the case for bringing back the death penalty.
He was too tired to argue the point (= discuss the matter).
a well-argued article
He argued that they needed more time to finish the project.
It could be argued that laws are made by and for men.
While the film is undoubtedly too long, it is nevertheless an intriguing piece of cinema.
It can be argued that the movie is too long. It is nonetheless an intriguing piece of cinema.
The film is undoubtedly too long. Still, it is an intriguing piece of cinema.
Of course, huge chunks of the book have been sacrificed in order to make a two-hour movie, but it is nevertheless a successful piece of storytelling.
Critics are wrong to argue that the film's plot is too complicated. Certainly there are a couple of major twists, but audiences will have no difficulty following them.
It is true that you cannot make a good movie without a good script, but it is equally true that a talented director can make a good script into an excellent film.
It remains to be seen whether these two movies herald a new era of westerns, but there is no doubt that they represent welcome additions to the genre.
These latest developments argue a change in government policy.
They argued him into withdrawing his complaint.
He's a really successful man—you can't argue with that.
to win/lose an argument
After some heated argument a decision was finally taken.
We had an argument with the waiter about the bill.
She got into an argument with the teacher.
Her main argument was a moral one.
There are strong arguments for and against euthanasia.
His argument was that public spending must be reduced.
Let's assume for the sake of argument (= in order to discuss the problem) that we can't start till March.
arid and semi-arid deserts
an arid discussion
A new crisis has arisen.
We keep them informed of any changes as they arise.
Children should be disciplined when the need arises (= when it is necessary).
A storm arose during the night.
injuries arising out of a road accident
Emotional or mental problems can arise from a physical cause.
Are there any matters arising from the minutes of the last meeting?
Several new industries arose in the town.
He arose at dawn.
The peasants arose against their masters.
members of the aristocracy
an aristocratic name/family/lifestyle
He's not very good at arithmetic.
a quick bit of mental arithmetic (= sums you do in your head, without writing anything down)
I think there's something wrong with your arithmetic.
an arithmetical calculation
He escaped with only a broken arm.
She threw her arms around his neck.
The officer grabbed him by the arm (= grabbed his arm).
She touched him gently on the arm.
He held the dirty rag at arm's length (= as far away from his body as possible).
They walked along arm in arm (= with the arm of one person linked with the arm of the other).
She cradled the child in her arms.
They fell asleep in each other's arms (= holding each other).
He was carrying a number of files under his arm (= between his arm and his body).
He walked in with a tall blonde on his arm (= next to him and holding his arm).
a robotic arm
A small bridge spans the arm of the river.
the research arm of the company
He keeps all his clients at arm's length.
There's a list of repairs as long as your arm.
There is no escape from the long arm of the law.
I'd have given my right arm to have been there with them.
The country was arming against the enemy.
The men armed themselves with sticks and stones.
(figurative) She had armed herself for the meeting with all the latest statistics.
The Spanish Armada was sent to attack England in 1588.
(figurative) a vast armada of football fans
the armaments industry
The figures are made from clay over a wire armature.
The stewards all wore armbands.
Many people at the funeral service were wearing black armbands.
to sit in an armchair
an armchair critic/traveller
an armed robbery
an international armed conflict (= a war)
The man is armed and dangerous.
armed guards
Police were heavily armed.
He was armed with a rifle.
He was armed with all the facts.
The two opposing armies faced each other across the battlefield.
Her husband is in the army.
After leaving school, Mike went into the army.
an army officer
an army of advisers/volunteers
An army of ants marched across the path.
He had him in an armlock.
a suit of armour
(figurative) Monkeys do not have any kind of protective armour and use their brains to solve problems.
an attack by infantry and armour
The cruiser was heavily armoured.
an armoured car
an armoured division
Doctors have an armoury of drugs available.
Britain's nuclear armoury
The city has been called the armpit of America.
arms and ammunition
Police officers in the UK do not usually carry arms.
the King's Arms (= used as the name of a pub)
the aroma of fresh coffee
aromatic oils/herbs
He arrived around five o'clock.
The cost would be somewhere around £1 500.
I could hear laughter all around.
a yard with a fence all around
How do you make the wheels go around?
an old tree that was at least ten feet around
We were all running around trying to get ready in time.
This is our new office—Kay will show you around.
There were papers lying around all over the floor.
There were several young people sitting around looking bored.
There was more money around in those days.
I knocked but there was no one around.
Digital television has been around for some time now.
a new tennis champion who could be around for a long time
She's been around as a film director since the 1980s.
She turned the car around and drove off.
They looked around when he called.
The house is built around a central courtyard.
He put his arms around her.
Our house is just around the corner.
The bus came around the bend.
There must be a way around the problem.
They walked around the lake.
They walked around the town looking for a place to eat.
I can't arrange everything around your timetable!
to arouse sb's interest/curiosity/anger
Her strange behaviour aroused our suspicions.
The whole community was aroused by the crime.
emotional/sexual arousal
arr. London 06.00
Handel, arr. Mozart
He was arraigned for murder.
He was arraigned on a charge of murder.
arrangers of care services for the elderly
arrant nonsense
a vast array of bottles of different shapes and sizes
a dazzling array of talent
Jars of all shapes and sizes were arrayed on the shelves.
She was arrayed in a black velvet gown.
rent/mortgage/tax arrears
We're two months in arrears with the rent.
A man has been arrested in connection with the robbery.
She was arrested for drug-related offences.
You could get arrested for doing that.
They failed to arrest the company's decline.
An unusual noise arrested his attention.
He arrested on the way to the hospital.
The police made several arrests.
She was under arrest on suspicion of murder.
Opposition leaders were put under house arrest (= not allowed to leave their houses).
He died after suffering a cardiac arrest (= when his heart suddenly stopped).
Guests receive dinner on/upon arrival at the hotel.
We apologize for the late arrival of the train.
the arrival of the mail in the morning
daily arrivals of refugees
There are 120 arrivals and departures every day.
The first arrivals at the concert got the best seats.
early/late/new arrivals
We're expecting a new arrival (= a baby) in the family soon.
the arrival of pay TV
She was pronounced dead on arrival.
The bill was dead on arrival in the Senate.
The software was DOA.
I'll wait until they arrive.
I was pleased to hear you arrived home safely.
to arrive early/late for a meeting
The police arrived to arrest him.
She'll arrive in New York at noon.
The train arrived at the station 20 minutes late.
By the time I arrived on the scene, it was all over.
We didn't arrive back at the hotel until very late.
A letter arrived for you this morning.
Send your application to arrive by 31 October.
We waited an hour for our lunch to arrive.
The new product will arrive on supermarket shelves (= be available) early next year.
The wedding day finally arrived.
The baby arrived (= was born) early.
He knew he had arrived when he was shortlisted for the Man Booker prize.
to arrive at an agreement/a decision/a conclusion
to arrive at the truth
I do not arrogate to myself the right to decide.
a bow and arrow
to fire/shoot an arrow
The road continues as straight as an arrow.
Follow the arrows.
Use the arrow keys to move the cursor.
Get off your arse!(= stop sitting around doing nothing)
I was supposed to do some work this weekend but I couldn't be arsed.
What an arsehole!
Britain's nuclear arsenal
to carry out an arson attack
modern/contemporary/American art
an art critic/historian/lover
Can we call television art?
stolen works of art
Her performance displayed great art.
an art gallery/exhibition
a collection of art and antiques
She's good at art and design.
an art teacher/student/college/class
lottery funding for the arts
Dance is a very theatrical art.
an arts degree
a therapist trained in the art of healing
Letter-writing is a lost art nowadays.
Appearing confident at interviews is quite an art (= rather difficult).
I spend so much time travelling that I've got packing down to a fine art.
The short story is a difficult art form to master.
She has elevated the dinner party into an art form.
blocked arteries
arterial blood/disease
an arterial road
arthritic hands/pain
Arthurian legends
Have you seen that article about young fashion designers?
Article 10 of the European Convention guarantees free speech.
articles of clothing
toilet articles such as soap and shampoo
The articles found in the car helped the police to identify the body.
an articled clerk (= sb who is training to be a solicitor )
She was articled to a firm of solicitors.
She struggled to articulate her thoughts.
He was too drunk to articulate properly.
Every note was carefully articulated.
These courses are designed to articulate with university degrees.
bones that articulate with others
a robot with articulated limbs
All we could hear were loud sobs, but no articulate words.
an articulated lorry/truck
the articulation of his theory
The singer worked hard on the clear articulation of every note.
articulatory movements/organs
She hangs out with the arty types she met at drama school.
an artificial limb/flower/sweetener/fertilizer
artificial lighting/light
artificial flowers
artificial light
synthetic drugs
shoes with synthetic soles
false teeth
a false beard
man-made fibres such as nylon
a fake-fur jacket
She would never wear imitation pearls.
A job interview is a very artificial situation.
the artificial barriers of race, class and gender
artificial emotion
artificially created lakes
artificially low prices
artificial insemination by a donor, abbreviated to 'AID'
The town is under heavy artillery fire.
an artisan bakery
artisanal skills
artisan bread
an exhibition of work by contemporary British artists
a graphic artist
a make-up artist
Police have issued an artist's impression of her attacker.
(figurative) Whoever made this cake is a real artist.
a recording/solo artist
the artistic works of the period
a work of great artistic merit
the artistic director of the theatre
artistic abilities/achievements/skills/talent
She comes from a very artistic family.
an artistic arrangement of dried flowers
He played the piece with effortless artistry.
the artless sincerity of a young child
I expect he's out with his arty-farty friends.
See you this arvo!
They were all dressed as clowns.
The bomb was disguised as a package.
She works as a courier.
Treat me as a friend.
I respect him as a doctor.
You can use that glass as a vase.
The news came as a shock.
She had been there often as a child (= when she was a child).
You're as tall as your father.
He was as white as a sheet.
She doesn't play as well as her sister.
I haven't known him as long as you (= as you have known him).
He doesn't earn as much as me.
He doesn't earn as much as I do.
It's not as hard as I thought.
Run as fast as you can.
We'd like it as soon as possible.
As always, he said little.
The 'h' in honest is silent, as in 'hour'.
He has blue eyes like me.
She enjoys all kinds of music, as I do.
Repeat these five steps, as in the last exercise.
Nobody understands him like I do.
I don't want to upset him again like before.
It looks like we're going to be late.
He sat watching her as she got ready.
As she grew older she gained in confidence.
They did as I had asked.
Leave the papers as they are.
She lost it, just as I said she would.
As you were out, I left a message.
She may need some help as she's new.
As you know, Julia is leaving soon.
She's very tall, as is her mother.
Happy as they were, there was something missing.
Try as he might (= however hard he tried), he couldn't open the door.
We'll decide on the team as and when we qualify.
I'll tell you more as and when (= as soon as I can).
As for Jo, she's doing fine.
As for food for the party, that's all being taken care of.
Our phone number is changing as from May 12.
He behaved as if nothing had happened.
It sounds as though you had a good time.
It's my birthday. As if you didn't know!
'Don't say anything.' ' As if I would! ' (= surely you do not expect me to)
We were hoping to finish it by next week—as it is, it may be the week after.
I can't help—I've got too much to do as it is (= already).
Teachers must put the brakes on, as it were, when they notice students looking puzzled.
As to tax, that will be deducted from your salary.
He smiled and I smiled back. As you do.
an as yet unpublished report
As yet little was known of the causes of the disease.
AS exams
She's doing an AS (level) in French.
More than 20 subjects are on offer at AS level at our college.
It's a nice place. We've stayed there ourselves, as a matter of fact.
'I suppose you'll be leaving soon, then?' 'No, as a matter of fact I'll be staying for another two years.'
to follow/obey/observe the rules
It's against all rules and regulations.
to break a rule (= not follow it)
This explains the rules under which the library operates.
Without unwritten rules civilized life would be impossible.
There are no hard and fast rules for planning healthy meals.
The first rule is to make eye contact with your interviewer.
He makes it a rule never to borrow money.
I go to bed early as a rule.
Cold winters here are the exception rather than the rule (= are rare).
As a general rule vegetable oils are better for you than animal fats.
the rules of grammar
under civilian/military, etc. rule
majority rule (= government by the political party that most people have voted for)
The 1972 act imposed direct rule from Westminster.
Most electronics companies have not done well this year, but ours is the exception that proves the rule.
At that time John ruled England.
(figurative) Eighty million years ago, dinosaurs ruled the earth.
Charles I ruled for eleven years.
She once ruled over a vast empire.
(figurative) After the revolution, anarchy ruled.
The pursuit of money ruled his life.
We live in a society where we are ruled by the clock.
The court will rule on the legality of the action.
The judge ruled against/in favour of the plaintiff.
The deal may be ruled illegal.
The deal was ruled to be illegal.
The court ruled that the women were unfairly dismissed.
It was ruled that the women had been unfairly dismissed.
Rule a line at the end of every piece of work.
The charges were thrown out of court.
Well that's my theory ruled out of court.
a policy of divide and rule
Police have not ruled out the possibility that the man was murdered.
The proposed solution was ruled out as too expensive.
His age effectively ruled him out as a possible candidate.
He has been ruled out of the match with a knee injury.
The festival will be great for our city and for the country as a whole.
We'll manage as best we can.
As chance would have it, John was going to London too, so I went with him.
Plant the seedlings in damp soil.
The car wheels got stuck in the mud.
A cloud of dust rose as the truck set off.
The tiles are made of clay.
an area of rich, fertile land
She put some earth into the pot.
Pack the dirt firmly around the plants.
The car got stuck in the muddy ground.
They drove across miles of rough, stony ground.
As far as we knew, there was no cause for concern.
As far as I can see, you've done nothing wrong.
She lived in Chicago, as far as I can remember.
The bleak moorland stretched on all sides as far as the eye could see.
The matter is as good as settled.
He as good as called me a coward (= suggested that I was a coward without actually using the word 'coward').
I didn't need my umbrella, as it turned out (= because it didn't rain).
As likely as not she's forgotten all about it.
We will most likely see him later.
The deal will likely result in more cuts to services.
We will likely see him later.
He said that he would likely run for President.
As luck would have it, the train was late.
There were as many as 200 people at the lecture.
Please help me get this job—you know I would do as much for you.
'Roger stole the money.' 'I thought as much.'
No dessert for me, thanks. It was as much as I could do to finish the main course.
There were about 3 000 people there, as near as I could judge.
It will cost £350, or as near as dammit.
As often as not, he's late for work.
We spoke as one on this matter.
200 attended, as opposed to 300 the previous year.
This exercise develops suppleness as opposed to (= rather than) strength.
As teachers go, he's not bad.
Everyone blamed me as per usual.
The work was carried out as per instructions.
The picture shows a family gathered around a kitchen table.
This is a picture/photo of a busy city street.
In the foreground/background, we can see a group of protesters.
In the bottom right-hand corner/top left-hand corner, there's a child sitting alone.
On the left/On the right/In the middle, someone is standing with a bottle in his hand.
In the cartoon, we can see two people looking at a newspaper headline.
The cartoonist has drawn the man to represent a typical businessman.
We will get your order to you as soon as possible.
I have little information as regards her fitness for the post.
As regards the first point in your letter…
The new job is not a promotion as such, but it has good prospects.
'Well, did they offer it to you?' 'No, not as such, but they said I had a good chance.'
There may be an announcement about this tomorrow—or not, as the case may be.
The villages are no more than a mile apart as the crow flies.
Steve, as usual, was the last to arrive.
As usual at that hour, the place was deserted.
Despite her problems, she carried on working as usual.
Are they coming as well?
They sell books as well as newspapers.
She is a talented musician as well as being a photographer.
As far as I am concerned, you can do what you like.
It's a good plan as far as it goes, but there are a lot of things they haven't thought of.
We'll go as long as the weather is good.
So long as there is a demand for these drugs, the financial incentive for drug dealers will be there.
Jill Davis that was (= before her marriage)
the Soviet Union, as was
I'll go for a run this evening, if the spirit moves me.
We bought a camper van so we could go away whenever the fancy took us.
a 400 ASA film
Yoga postures, or asanas, build strength, energy and flexibility.
The path started to ascend more steeply.
The air became colder as we ascended.
The results, ranked in ascending order (= from the lowest to the highest) are as follows:
Mist ascended from the valley.
(figurative) He ascended to the peak of sporting achievement.
Her heart was thumping as she ascended the stairs.
(figurative) to ascend the throne (= become king or queen)
moral/political/intellectual ascendancy
The opposition party was in the ascendancy (= gaining control).
I'm a Capricorn but my ascendant is Leo.
her ascension to the throne
the first ascent of Mount Kilimanjaro
The cart began its gradual ascent up the hill.
The rocket steepened its ascent.
At the other side of the valley was a steep ascent to the top of the hill.
man's ascent to civilization
The monks lived a very ascetic life.
monks, hermits and ascetics
This play is usually ascribed to Shakespeare.
He ascribed his failure to bad luck.
We ascribe great importance to these policies.
Their success is ascribable to the quality of their goods.
the ascription of meaning to objects and events
asexual reproduction
the tendency to see old people as asexual
to reproduce asexually
cigarette ash
black volcanic ash
The town was reduced to ashes in the fighting.
the glowing ashes of the campfire
(figurative) The party had risen, like a phoenix, from the ashes of electoral disaster.
She wanted her ashes to be scattered at sea.
She was deeply ashamed of her behaviour at the party.
Mental illness is nothing to be ashamed of.
His daughter looked such a mess that he was ashamed of her.
You should be ashamed of yourself for telling such lies.
I feel almost ashamed that I've been so lucky.
The football riots made me ashamed to be English.
You should be ashamed of treating your daughter like that.
I am sorry that I forgot to buy the milk.
I was embarrassed about forgetting his name.
I'm ashamed to say that I lied to her.
I cried at the end and I'm not ashamed to admit it.
They listened ashen-faced to the news.
His face was ashen and wet with sweat.
to come/go ashore
a drowned body found washed ashore on the beach
The cruise included several days ashore.
British Asians
Asian music
the Asiatic tropics
She pulled the curtain aside.
Stand aside and let these people pass.
He took me aside (= away from a group of people) to give me some advice.
(figurative) Leaving aside (= not considering at this stage) the cost of the scheme, let us examine its benefits.
All our protests were brushed aside (= ignored).
We set aside some money for repairs.
Money worries aside, things are going well.
I mention it only as an aside.
Aside from a few scratches, I'm OK.
The two large classrooms have been assigned to us.
The teacher assigned a different task to each of the children.
We have been assigned the two large classrooms.
The teacher assigned each of the children a different task.
They've assigned their best man to the job.
British forces have been assigned to help with peacekeeping.
I was assigned to B platoon.
Assign a different colour to each different type of information.
The painting cannot be assigned an exact date.
The agreement assigns copyright to the publisher.
The committee will need time to assimilate this report.
New arrivals find it hard to assimilate.
Immigrants have been successfully assimilated into the community.
These changes were gradually assimilated into everyday life.
How old are you—if you don't mind me/my asking?
He asked about her family.
Can I ask a question?
Did you ask the price?
'Where are you going?' she asked.
'Are you sure?' he asked her.
She asked the students their names.
I often get asked that!
The interviewer asked me about my future plans.
He asked where I lived.
I had to ask the teacher what to do next.
I was asked if/whether I could drive.
'Where are you going?' she asked.
She asked the students their names.
I called the station to enquire about train times.
'And where have you been?' he demanded angrily.
All the students were asked to complete a questionnaire.
Eric asked me to marry him.
I asked whether they could change my ticket.
She asked me if I would give her English lessons.
(formal) She asked that she be kept informed of developments.
(BrE also ) She asked that she should be kept informed.
Could you possibly help me?
I wonder if you could give me a hand?
Would you mind opening the door for me?
I wonder if you'd mind taking a picture of us?
Could I ask you to keep an eye on my luggage for a moment?
Yes, of course.
I'm sorry, I'm in a hurry.
Sure. (informal or NAmE)
to ask for a job/a drink/an explanation
I am writing to ask for some information about courses.
Why don't you ask his advice?
Why don't you ask him for his advice?
Can I ask a favour of you?
Can I ask you a favour?
Could I have a glass of water, please?
Do you have any decaffeinated coffee?
I'd like tea with sugar, please.
I'll have the pasta with salad, please.
Certainly.
I'm sorry, we don't have any left.
Yes, of course. Here you are/go.
Did you ask to use the car?
I asked to see the manager.
I'll ask if it's all right to park here.
She asked her boss whether she could have the day off.
They've asked me to dinner.
I didn't ask them in (= to come into the house).
We must ask the neighbours round (= to our house).
She's asked him to come to the party.
Would you like to come for a meal on Saturday?
There's a presentation of our new product at the conference on Tuesday. Would you be interested in coming along?
I'm going to the game on Saturday— how about joining me?
We're going to Boston— do you want to come with us? (informal or NAmE)
That would be very nice, thank you.
I'd love to, thanks very much.
I'm sorry. I've already got something on at the weekend.
I'm sorry. I already have plans on Saturday.
Thank you, I'll check my diary and let you know.(BrE)
Thank you, I'll check my calendar and let you know.(NAmE)
He's asking £2 000 for the car.
I know I'm asking a great deal.
You're asking too much of him.
I know it's asking a lot to expect them to win again.
She demanded an immediate explanation.
All candidates will be required to take a short test.
I expect to be paid promptly for the work.
I didn't want to go but he insisted.
We insist on the highest standards at all times.
The job is yours for the asking.
Their marriage was a mistake, if you ask me.
He always asks after you in his letters.
I don't know of any vacancies in the company but I'll ask around.
I hoped he wouldn't ask me back.
When you arrive, ask for Jane.
He's too shy to ask her out.
His glasses had been knocked askew by the blow.
Her hat was slightly askew.
The picture hung aslant.
The baby was sound asleep (= sleeping deeply) upstairs.
I waited until they were all fast asleep (= sleeping deeply).
He was so exhausted that he fell asleep at his desk.
She was still half asleep (= not fully awake) when she arrived at work.
The police found him asleep in a garage.
I always associate the smell of baking with my childhood.
He is closely associated in the public mind with horror movies.
I don't like you associating with those people.
I associate myself with the Prime Minister's remarks (= I agree with them).
associate membership of the European Union
an associate member/director/editor
an associate company in Japan
business associates
the risks associated with taking drugs
Salaries and associated costs have risen substantially.
He no longer wished to be associated with the party's policy on education.
Associated Newspapers
Do you belong to any professional or trade associations?
the Football Association
a residents' association
his alleged association with terrorist groups
They have maintained a close association with a college in the US.
The book was published in association with (= together with) English Heritage.
She became famous through her association with the group of poets.
The seaside had all sorts of pleasant associations with childhood holidays for me.
The cat soon made the association between human beings and food.
a proven association between passive smoking and cancer
The book aims to cover all aspects of city life.
the most important aspect of the debate
She felt she had looked at the problem from every aspect.
This was one aspect of her character he hadn't seen before.
Events began to take on a more sinister aspect.
a big-screen TV with a 16:9 aspect ratio
I didn't realize you had political aspirations.
He has never had any aspiration to earn a lot of money.
What changes are needed to meet women's aspirations for employment?
I wouldn't want to cast aspersions on your honesty.
chicken breast in aspic
aspirants to the title of world champion
The word 'hour' is pronounced without an initial aspirate.
She aspired to a scientific career.
He aspired to be their next leader.
Do you have any aspirin?
Take two aspirin(s) for a headache.
Aspiring musicians need hours of practice every day.
He came from an aspiring working-class background.
Don't be such an ass!
I made an ass of myself at the meeting—standing up and then forgetting the question.
Get everything in writing in order to cover your back.
He was assailed with fierce blows to the head.
The proposal was assailed by the opposition party.
(figurative) A vile smell assailed my nostrils.
to be assailed by worries/doubts/fears
The prime minister was assassinated by extremists.
a plot to assassinate the president
The president survived a number of assassination attempts.
the assassination of John F. Kennedy
Both men were charged with assault.
sexual assaults
A significant number of indecent assaults on women go unreported.
An assault on the capital was launched in the early hours of the morning.
The government has mounted a new assault on unemployment.
Three people died during an assault on the mountain (= while trying to climb it).
The suggested closures came under assault from all parties.
The paper's assault on the president was totally unjustified.
He has been charged with assaulting a police officer.
Four women have been sexually assaulted in the area recently.
Loud rock music assaulted our ears.
Tropical rainforests have the most varied assemblage of plants in the world.
All the students were asked to assemble in the main hall.
She then addressed the assembled company (= all the people there).
to assemble evidence/data
The manager has assembled a world-class team.
The shelves are easy to assemble.
a house built of stone
They're going to build on the site of the old power station.
The cupboard is easy to assemble.
Police had to erect barriers to keep crowds back.
They're putting up new hotels in order to boost tourism in the area.
state/legislative/federal/local assemblies
Power has been handed over to provincial and regional assemblies.
The national assembly has voted to adopt the budget.
the California Assembly
the UN General Assembly
They were fighting for freedom of speech and freedom of assembly.
He was to address a public assembly on the issue.
an assembly point (= a place where people have been asked to meet)
Putting the bookcase together should be a simple assembly job.
a car assembly plant
workers on the assembly line
The director has given her assent to the proposals.
He nodded (his) assent.
There were murmurs of both assent and dissent from the crowd.
The bill passed in Parliament has now received (the) Royal Assent (= been approved by the king/queen).
Nobody would assent to the terms they proposed.
She continued to assert that she was innocent.
She continued to assert her innocence.
'That is wrong,' he asserted.
It is commonly asserted that older people prefer to receive care from family members.
to assert your independence/rights
I was determined to assert my authority from the beginning.
Good sense asserted itself.
He was correct in his assertion that the minister had been lying.
Do you have any evidence to support your assertions?
the assertion of his authority
The demonstration was an assertion of the right to peaceful protest.
You should try and be more assertive.
assertive behaviour
an assertiveness training course
It's difficult to assess the effects of these changes.
to assess a patient's needs
The young men were assessed as either safe or unsafe drivers.
I'd assess your chances as low.
The committee assesses whether a building is worth preserving.
We are trying to assess how well the system works.
They have assessed the amount of compensation to be paid.
Damage to the building was assessed at £40 000.
a detailed assessment of the risks involved
his assessment of the situation
written exams and other forms of assessment
Objective assessment of the severity of the problem was difficult.
a tax assessment
After the first interview you may be asked back for an assessment centre.
an insurance/tax assessor
College lecturers acted as external assessors of the exam results.
In his job, patience is an invaluable asset.
She'll be an asset to the team.
the net asset value of the company
Her assets include shares in the company and a house in France.
asset sales/management
financial/capital assets
You will need to complete three written assignments per semester.
She is in Greece on an assignment for one of the Sunday newspapers.
one of our reporters on assignment in China
I had set myself a tough assignment.
his assignment to other duties in the same company
the rapid assimilation of new ideas
his assimilation into the community
technical/economic/military assistance
financial assistance for people on low incomes
Can I be of any assistance?
Despite his cries, no one came to his assistance.
He can walk only with the assistance of crutches.
She offered me practical assistance with my research.
The company provides advice and assistance in finding work.
Anyone willing to assist can contact this number.
We are looking for people who would be willing to assist in the group's work.
We'll do all we can to assist you.
The play was directed by Mike Johnson, assisted by Sharon Gale.
We will assist you in finding somewhere to live.
Two men are assisting the police with their enquiries (= are being questioned by the police).
a course to assist adults to return to the labour market
activities that will assist the decision-making process
He had/made ten assists.
My assistant will now demonstrate the machine in action.
a senior research assistant
an assistant in a department store
the assistant manager
Assistant Chief Constable Owen
Assistant Attorney General William Weld
assisted living apartments
the assize court
The meat is served with salad or assorted vegetables.
The jumper comes in assorted colours.
a wide assortment of gifts to choose from
He was dressed in an odd assortment of clothes.
Asst Manager
It is reasonable to assume (that) the economy will continue to improve.
Let us assume for a moment that the plan succeeds.
She would, he assumed, be home at the usual time.
It is generally assumed that stress is caused by too much work.
Don't always assume the worst (= that sth bad has happened).
In this example we have assumed a unit price of $10.
I had assumed him to be a Belgian.
Rebel forces have assumed control of the capital.
The court assumed responsibility for the girl's welfare.
This matter has assumed considerable importance.
In the story the god assumes the form of an eagle.
He assumed an air of concern.
the assumed differences between the two states
He was living under an assumed name.
Assuming (that) he's still alive, how old would he be now?
I hope to go to college next year, always assuming I pass my exams.
an underlying/implicit assumption
We need to challenge some of the basic assumptions of Western philosophy.
We are working on the assumption that everyone invited will turn up.
It was impossible to make assumptions about people's reactions.
His actions were based on a false assumption.
their assumption of power/control
They called for assurances that the government is committed to its education policy.
Unemployment seems to be rising, despite repeated assurances to the contrary.
There was an air of easy assurance and calm about him.
a life assurance company
You think I did it deliberately, but I assure you (that) I did not.
We were assured that everything possible was being done.
She's perfectly safe, I can assure you.
We assured him of our support.
'He'll come back,' Susan assured her.
He assured himself of her safety.
She assured herself that the letter was still in the drawer.
Victory would assure a place in the finals.
Victory would assure them a place in the finals.
What is the sum assured?
You may rest assured that we will do all we can to find him.
He spoke in a calm, assured voice.
Success seemed assured.
You are assured of a warm welcome at this hotel.
Most people's faces are asymmetric.
Linguists are studying the asymmetric use of Creole by parents and children (= parents use one language and children reply in another).
I've placed an asterisk next to the tasks I want you to do first.
I've asterisked the tasks I want you to do first.
a severe asthma attack
asthmatic patients
an asthmatic attack
She astonished us by saying she was leaving.
It astonishes me (that) he could be so thoughtless.
The helicopter landed before our astonished eyes.
My parents looked astonished at my news.
She seemed astonished (that) I had never been to Paris.
He was astonished to learn he'd won the competition.
She ran 100m in an astonishing 10.6 seconds.
I find it absolutely astonishing that you didn't like it.
Jack took the news astonishingly well.
Astonishingly, a crowd of several thousands turned out to hear him.
To my utter astonishment, she remembered my name.
He stared in astonishment at the stranger.
She was astounded by his arrogance.
an astounded expression
How can you say that? I'm absolutely astounded.
She looked astounded at the news.
The doctors were astounded (that) he survived.
I was astounded to see her appear from the house.
There was an astounding 20% increase in sales.
astral navigation
the astral plane
Several letters went astray or were not delivered.
We locked up our valuables so they would not go astray.
Fortunately the gunman's shots went astray.
Jack's parents thought the other boys might lead him astray (= make him do things that are wrong).
to sit astride a horse/bike/chair
(figurative) a town astride the river
astringent writers/comments
the astringent taste of lemon juice
astronaut
astrophysics
astrological influences
astronomical observations
the astronomical price of land for building
The figures are astronomical.
Interest rates are astronomically high.
an astute businessman/politician/observer
It was an astute move to sell the shares then.
families rent/torn asunder by the revolution
a political asylee
to seek/apply for/be granted asylum
There was a nationwide debate on whether the asylum laws should be changed.
at the corner of the street
We changed at Crewe.
They arrived late at the airport.
At the roundabout take the third exit.
I'll be at home all morning.
She's at Tom's (= at Tom's house).
I met her at the hospital.
How many people were there at the concert?
He's been at the bank longer than anyone else.
She's at Yale (= Yale University).
We left at 2 o'clock.
at the end of the week
We woke at dawn.
I didn't know at the time of writing (= when I wrote).
At night you can see the stars.
(BrE) What are you doing at the weekend?
She got married at 25.
He left school at the age of 16.
What are you looking at?
He pointed a gun at her.
Somebody threw paint at the prime minister.
He clutched wildly at the rope as he fell.
She nibbled at a sandwich (= ate only small bits of it).
I held it at arm's length.
Can you read a car number plate at fifty metres?
The country is now at war.
I felt at a disadvantage.
I think Mr Harris is at lunch.
He was driving at 70 mph.
The noise came at two-minute intervals (= once every two minutes).
Prices start at $1 000.
This was Murray at his best.
The garden's at its most beautiful in June.
I'm good at French.
She's hopeless at managing people.
They were impatient at the delay.
She was delighted at the result.
They attended the dinner at the chairman's invitation.
You can reach me at 637-2335, extension 354.
He managed to buy a car after all—and a nice one at that.
Look at all that graffiti—those kids have been at it again.
Judging by the crowds waiting to get in, this seems to be where it's at.
Buses to the city leave at regular intervals.
The runners started at 5-minute intervals.
Flaming torches were positioned at intervals along the terrace.
At last we're home!
At long last the cheque arrived.
Lastly, I would like to thank my parents for all their support.
At last, after twenty hours on the boat, they arrived at their destination.
As a news item it merits a short paragraph at most.
There were 50 people there, at the very most.
At the very worst, he'll have to pay a fine.
I never feel completely at ease with him.
He could tell at a glance what was wrong.
They threatened to cancel the whole project at a stroke.
Come and see us, if you're at a loose end.
His comments left me at a loss for words.
I'm at a loss what to do next.
Morale among teachers is at a low ebb.
This was the best room we could get at such short notice.
You must be ready to leave at a moment's notice.
We can get six people round this table at a pinch.
Space is at a premium in a one-bedroomed apartment.
Shares are selling at a premium.
You can buy strawberries all year round, but at a price.
He'll help you—at a price!
We can provide accommodation for six people at a push.
He left home at the tender age of 15.
She shouldn't be having to deal with problems like this at such a tender age.
We had to go and see the principal one at a time.
She ran up the stairs two at a time.
You must stop the press from finding out at all costs.
I think she'll agree to do it but in any event, all she can say is 'no'.
Our representatives are ready to help you at all times.
The job involved getting up at some unearthly hour to catch the first train.
He is determined to win at any cost.
We want peace at any price.
Well, that's one good piece of news at any rate.
I may be away on business next week but at any rate I'll be back by Friday.
He said he'll be coming tomorrow. At any rate, I think that's what he said.
There were maybe 60 or 70 people there. At any rate, the room was packed.
Their response to the proposal was, at best, cool.
We can't arrive before Friday at best.
Their offer to help was at bottom self-centred.
goods sold at cost
At every turn I met with disappointment.
I didn't like the job much at first.
At first I thought he was shy, but then I discovered he was just not interested in other people.
(saying) If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
The brochure is divided into two sections, dealing firstly with basic courses and secondly with advanced ones.
Maggie had seen him nearly every day at first. Now she saw him much less.
At first glance the problem seemed easy.
At first sight, it may look like a generous offer, but always read the small print.
It was love at first sight (= we fell in love the first time we saw each other).
Fire crews have been operating at full stretch.
The driver was robbed at gunpoint.
Flags were flown at half mast on the day of his funeral.
He's still a socialist at heart.
I phoned you last night, but you weren't at home.
Oh no, I left my purse at home.
He lived at home (= with his parents) until he was thirty.
Sit down and make yourself at home.
Simon feels very at home on a horse.
The president is not as popular at home as he is abroad.
Leeds are playing at home this weekend.
Is the match on Saturday at home or away?
She was raped at knifepoint.
the opinion of the public at large
Her killer is still at large.
It'll cost at least 500 dollars.
She must be at least 40.
Cut the grass at least once a week in summer.
I've known her at least as long as you have.
She may be slow but at least she's reliable.
You could at least listen to what he says.
Well, at least they weren't bored.
They seldom complained—officially at least.
It works, at least I think it does.
Spend the afternoon at leisure in the town centre.
Let's have lunch so we can talk at leisure.
He quoted at length from the report.
We have already discussed this matter at great length.
'I'm still not sure,' he said at length.
You are at liberty to say what you like.
The two governments are still at loggerheads over the island.
At long last his prayers had been answered.
Eyesight doesn't get any better at my time of life.
Come here at once!
Don't all speak at once!
I can't do two things at once.
She blew out the candles at one go.
She opened the book at random (= not at any particular page) and started reading.
The terrorists fired into the crowd at random.
Names were chosen at random from a list.
At rest the insect looks like a dead leaf.
She now lies at rest in the churchyard.
As with all diseases, certain groups will be more at risk than others.
If we go to war, innocent lives will be put at risk.
He dived in to save the dog at considerable risk to his own life.
Don't expect to have me at your beck and call.
Can you telephone me at your convenience to arrange a meeting?
Bail is granted at the discretion of the court.
There is no service charge and tipping is at your discretion.
We were taken out for a meal at the company's expense.
Health care must be at the service of all who need it.
(formal or humorous) If you need anything, I am at your service.
It happened on the second night at sea.
They were lost at sea.
I'm all at sea with these new regulations.
Is your salary taxed at source (= by your employer)?
We cannot afford to take risks when people's lives are at stake.
The prize at stake is a place in the final.
It'll take a year, at the very least.
He's never very happy at the best of times—he'll be much worse now!
He missed a three-point attempt at the buzzer.
Many of the best ideas come from doctors at the coalface.
The company can't expect me to move my home and family at the drop of a hat.
At the end of the day, he'll still have to make his own decision.
He built up the business at the expense of his health.
She'd applied for 30 jobs at the last count.
Applications should be in by next Monday at the latest.
It will take an hour at the longest.
I'm not going to put myself at the mercy of the bank.
We were at the mercy of the weather.
There was room for 20 people at the outside.
We all had our cameras at the ready.
At the risk of showing my ignorance, how exactly does the Internet work?
She was laughing and crying at the same time.
You have to be firm, but at the same time you should try and be sympathetic.
She was screaming at the top of her voice.
These workers are at the bottom of the economic heap.
At this moment in time, I don't know what my decision will be.
At this rate, we'll soon be bankrupt.
He can be really bad-tempered at times.
These conclusions are totally at variance with the evidence.
They were able to come and go at will.
She suspected that secret influences were at work.
He is still at work on the painting.
Danger—men at work.
Please telephone at your earliest convenience.
I suggest you take the forms away and read them at your leisure.
I learnt these songs at my mother's knee.
He will have a car at his disposal for the whole month.
Well, I'm at your disposal (= I am ready to help you in any way I can).
The land can be sold at the owner's pleasure.
We're having an at-home—can you come?
an at-home job
at-home dads
Social services keep lists of at-risk children.
She had loved him at a distance for years.
fighting at close quarters
I made it clear right from the outset that I disapproved.
Women have always been at the forefront of the Green movement.
The new product took the company to the forefront of the computer software field.
The court case was constantly in the forefront of my mind (= I thought about it all the time).
He fled from the stadium with the police at his heels.
At his suggestion, I bought the more expensive printer.
an atavistic urge/instinct/fear
I passed my driving test at the first attempt.
Two factories were closed in an attempt to cut costs.
They made no attempt to escape.
The couple made an unsuccessful attempt at a compromise.
Someone has made an attempt on the President's life.
his attempt on the world land speed record
I will attempt to answer all your questions.
Do not attempt to repair this yourself.
The prisoners attempted an escape, but failed.
Olympic athletes
She is a natural athlete.
an athletic figure/build
a tall, slim athletic girl
an athletic club/coach
She moved with great athleticism about the court.
students involved in all forms of college athletics
the upper atmosphere
pollution of the atmosphere
Saturn's atmosphere
a smoky/stuffy atmosphere
These plants love warm, humid atmospheres.
a party atmosphere
The hotel offers a friendly atmosphere and personal service.
Use music and lighting to create a romantic atmosphere.
There was an atmosphere of mutual trust between them.
The children grew up in an atmosphere of violence and insecurity.
The old house is full of atmosphere (= it's very interesting).
They put a table athwart the doorway.
His statement ran athwart what was previously said.
social attitudes to/towards/about/on education
the government's attitude towards single parents
to have a good/bad/positive/negative attitude towards sb/sth
Youth is simply an attitude of mind.
If you want to pass your exams you'd better change your attitude!
You're taking a pretty selfish attitude over this, aren't you?
A lot of drivers have a serious attitude problem (= they do not behave in a way that is acceptable to other people).
a band with attitude
You'd better get rid of that attitude and shape up, young man.
Her hands were folded in an attitude of prayer.
a world atlas
a road atlas of Europe
atmospheric pollution/conditions/pressure
atmospheric music
the splitting of the atom
Two atoms of hydrogen combine with one atom of oxygen to form a molecule of water.
atomic structure
atomic energy/power
the atomic bomb
to atone for a crime
to make atonement for his sins
Yom Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement
a flag high atop a pole
a scoop of ice cream atop a slice of apple pie
She felt an immediate attraction for him.
Sexual attraction is a large part of falling in love.
Buckingham Palace is a major tourist attraction.
The main attraction at Giverny is Monet's garden.
I can't see the attraction of sitting on a beach all day.
City life holds little attraction for me.
She is the star attraction of the show.
gravitational/magnetic attraction
She attributes her success to hard work and a little luck.
The committee refused to attribute blame without further information.
This play is usually attributed to Shakespeare.
The attribution of this painting to Rembrandt has never been questioned.
Patience is one of the most important attributes in a teacher.
She speaks French with an atrocious accent.
Isn't the weather atrocious?
atrocious acts of brutality
(figurative, formal) The cultural life of the country will sink into atrophy unless more writers and artists emerge.
patients whose muscles have atrophied
(figurative) Memory can atrophy through lack of use.
atrophied muscles
atrophied religious values
I attach a copy of my notes for your information.
I attach a copy of the spreadsheet (= send it with an email).
Attach the coupon to the front of your letter.
(figurative) They have attached a number of conditions to the agreement (= said that the conditions must be part of the agreement).
I attach great importance to this research.
He attached himself to me at the party and I couldn't get rid of him.
No one is suggesting that any health risks attach to this product.
No blame attaches to you.
This does not attach any blame to you.
a cultural attaché
I've never seen two people so attached to each other.
We've grown very attached to this house.
The research unit is attached to the university.
Please complete the attached application form.
a child's strong attachment to its parents
the popular attachment to democratic government
an electric drill with a range of different attachments
All cars built since 1981 have points for the attachment of safety restraints.
They discussed the attachment of new conditions to the peace plans.
They had to check the strength of the seat attachments to the floor of the plane.
She's on attachment to the local hospital.
a 4-month training attachment
a series of racist attacks
to launch/make/mount an attack
The patrol came under attack from all sides.
a scathing attack on the government's policies
The school has come under attack for failing to encourage bright pupils.
to launch an all-out attack on poverty/unemployment
to suffer an asthma attack
an acute attack of food poisoning
a panic attack
(figurative) an attack of the giggles
an attack of nerves
The roof timbers were affected by rot and insect attack.
Germany's attack has been weakened by the loss of some key players through injury.
a sustained attack on the Arsenal goal
Most dogs will not attack unless provoked.
A woman was attacked and robbed by a gang of youths.
The man attacked him with a knife.
The guerrillas attack at night.
At dawn the army attacked the town.
a newspaper article attacking the England football manager
She has been attacked for ignoring her own party members.
a disease that attacks the brain
The vines were attacked by mildew.
Let's attack one problem at a time.
Spain attacked more in the second half and deserved a goal.
His image has changed from statesman to attack dog.
She didn't really see her attacker.
Most of our students attained five 'A' grades in their exams.
The cheetah can attain speeds of up to 97 kph.
attainable goals/objectives/targets
This standard is easily attainable by most students.
a young woman of impressive educational attainments
The attainment of his ambitions was still a dream.
attainment targets (= for example in education)
attempted rape/murder/robbery
We'd like as many people as possible to attend.
The meeting was attended by 90% of shareholders.
to attend a wedding/funeral
Our children attend the same school.
How many people attend church every Sunday?
Your dentist will ask you to attend for regular check-ups.
She hadn't been attending during the lesson.
She dislikes the loss of privacy that attends TV celebrity.
The President was attended by several members of his staff.
I have some urgent business to attend to.
A nurse attended to his needs constantly.
(BrE, formal) Are you being attended to, Sir?(= for example, in a shop)
Attendance at these lectures is not compulsory.
Teachers must keep a record of students' attendances.
high/low/falling/poor attendances
There was an attendance of 42 at the meeting.
Several heads of state were in attendance at the funeral.
He always has at least two bodyguards in attendance.
a cloakroom/parking/museum attendant
attendant problems/risks/circumstances
We had all the usual problems attendant upon starting a new business.
She's a regular attender at evening classes.
the report's attention to detail
He turned his attention back to the road again.
Small children have a very short attention span.
Please pay attention (= listen carefully) to what I am saying.
Don't pay any attention to what they say (= don't think that it is important).
She tried to attract the waiter's attention.
I tried not to draw attention to (= make people notice) the weak points in my argument.
An article in the newspaper caught my attention.
I couldn't give the programme my undivided attention.
(formal) It has come to my attention (= I have been informed) that…
(formal) He called (their) attention to the fact that many files were missing.
(formal) Can I have your attention please?
Films with big stars always attract great attention.
As the youngest child, she was always the centre of attention.
She tried to escape the unwanted attentions of her former boyfriend.
She was in need of medical attention.
The roof needs attention (= needs to be repaired).
for the attention of… (= written on the envelope of an official letter to say who should deal with it)
to stand at/to attention
Attention, please! Passengers for flight KL412 are requested to go to gate 21 immediately.
an attentive audience
The hotel staff are friendly and attentive.
Ministers should be more attentive to the needs of families.
The drug attenuates the effects of the virus.
an attenuated form of the virus
Contemporary accounts attest to his courage and determination.
to attest a will
The signature was attested by two witnesses.
furniture stored in the attic
an attic bedroom
dressed in formal evening attire
Sales Dept, attn C Biggs
200 attowatts
She was made her father's attorney when he became ill.
I had always been attracted by the idea of working abroad.
What first attracted me to her was her sense of humour.
The warm damp air attracts a lot of mosquitoes.
The exhibition has attracted thousands of visitors.
This proposal has attracted a lot of interest.
His comments were bound to attract criticism.
She tried to attract the attention of the waiter.
This type of trap uses no bait or other attractant.
an attractive woman
I like John but I don't find him attractive physically.
She looked stunningly beautiful that night.
She's got a very pretty face.
He was described as ' tall, dark and handsome '.
She's a very attractive woman.
She looked particularly lovely that night.
She arrived with a very good-looking man.
You look gorgeous!
a big house with an attractive garden
That's one of the less attractive aspects of her personality.
an attractive offer/proposition
The room is arranged very attractively.
attractively priced hotel rooms
the attractiveness of travelling abroad
Their illnesses are attributable to a poor diet.
In 'the blue sky' and 'a family business', 'blue' and 'family' are attributive.
Some adjectives can only be used attributively.
It was a war of attrition.
She wasn't yet attuned to her baby's needs.
atypical behaviour
I'm new here so I'm not completely au fait with the system.
The fish is served au naturel, uncooked and with nothing added.
the rich auburn of her hair
an auction of paintings
The house is up for auction (= will be sold at an auction ).
A classic Rolls-Royce fetched (= was sold for) £25 000 at auction.
an Internet auction site
The costumes from the movie are to be auctioned for charity.
The Army is auctioning off a lot of surplus equipment.
an audacious decision
He had the audacity to say I was too fat.
The audience was/were clapping for 10 minutes.
an audience of 10 000
The debate was televised in front of a live audience.
An audience of millions watched the wedding on TV.
TV/cinema/movie audiences
His book reached an even wider audience when it was made into a movie.
The target audience for this advertisement was mainly teenagers.
an audience with the Pope
a job interview
He confessed after four days under interrogation.
The Pope granted her a private audience.
Her voice was barely audible above the noise.
audio and video cassettes
The museum provides free audio guides.
audiovisual
audiovisual aids for the classroom
an annual audit
a tax audit
She was auditioning for the role of Lady Macbeth.
We auditioned over 200 children for the part.
auditory stimuli
the potential use of augmented reality for crime-scene visualization
Conflicts among the various groups do not augur well for the future of the peace talks.
(BrE) August Bank Holiday (= a public holiday on the last Monday in August in Britain)
Aunt Alice
My aunt lives in Canada.
The foreign minister has become everybody's favourite Aunt Sally.
Auntie Mary
She always has an aura of confidence.
aural and visual images
aural comprehension tests
an aureate style of writing
The community centre was set up under the auspices of a government initiative.
an auspicious start to the new school year
her austere bedroom with its simple narrow bed
My father was a distant, austere man.
the monks' austere way of life
War was followed by many years of austerity.
the austerity of the monks' life
the austerities of wartime Europe
the Austro-Hungarian border
I don't know if the painting is authentic.
an authentic account of life in the desert
the authentic voice of young black Americans
an authentic model of the ancient town
authentically flavoured Mexican dishes
The letter has been authenticated by handwriting experts.
Experts have authenticated the writing as that of Byron himself.
Who is your favourite author?
He is the author of three books on art.
best-selling author Paul Theroux
Who's the author?
As the author of the proposal I cannot agree with you.
an autobiographical novel (= one that contains many of the writer's own experiences)
an authoritative tone of voice
the most authoritative book on the subject
I can authorize payments up to £5 000.
an authorized biography
I have authorized him to act for me while I am away.
The soldiers were authorized to shoot at will.
an authoritarian regime/government/state
Father was a strict authoritarian.
in a position of authority
She now has authority over the people who used to be her bosses.
Nothing will be done because no one in authority (= who has a position of power) takes the matter seriously.
Only the Board has the authority to approve the budget.
It was done without the principal's authority.
We acted under the authority of the UN.
The health authorities are investigating the problem.
I have to report this to the authorities.
He spoke with authority on the topic.
She's an authority on criminal law.
You may not enter the security area without authorization.
Who gave the authorization to release the data?
Can I see your authorization?
The authorship of the poem is unknown.
autistic behaviour/children
the auto industry
autobiography
automatic
When you enter the first few letters of a name from your address book, the field will autocomplete.
The program will autocomplete your address each time you begin to type it.
an autocratic manager
I often use autofill to enter delivery information for online purchases.
Could I have your autograph?
The whole team has autographed a football, which will be used as a prize.
The audio automagically downloads to your MP3 player.
The entire manufacturing process has been automated.
The factory is now fully automated.
automatic doors
a fully automatic driverless train
automatic transmission (= in a car, etc.)
an automatic rifle (= one that continues to fire as long as the trigger is pressed)
Breathing is an automatic function of the body.
My reaction was automatic.
A fine for this offence is automatic.
The heating switches off automatically.
I turned left automatically without thinking.
You will automatically get free dental treatment if you are under 18.
I got up and dressed on automatic pilot.
Automation meant the loss of many factory jobs.
the automobile industry
an automobile accident
the automotive industry
a campaign in Wales for greater autonomy
giving individuals greater autonomy in their own lives
an autonomous republic/state/province
an autopsy report
to perform an autopsy
in the autumn of 2010
in early/late autumn
the autumn term (= for example at a school or college in Britain)
autumn colours/leaves
It's been a very mild autumn this year.
autumnal colours
auxiliary nurses/workers/services
nursing auxiliaries
The doctors tried everything to keep him alive but to no avail.
Your ability to argue is of little avail if the facts are wrong.
To avail all these benefits, just register online.
Why not avail of our special offers?
Guests are encouraged to avail themselves of the full range of hotel facilities.
available resources/facilities
readily/freely/publicly/generally available
Tickets are available free of charge from the school.
When will the information be made available?
Further information is available on request.
This was the only room available.
We'll send you a copy as soon as it becomes available.
Every available doctor was called to the scene.
Will she be available this afternoon?
The director was not available for comment.
the availability of cheap flights
(BrE) This offer is subject to availability.
alpine villages destroyed in an avalanche
(figurative) We received an avalanche of letters in reply to our advertisement.
experimental music like avant-rock
avant-jazz
avant-pop
civil/military aviation
the aviation business/industry
Fifth Ave.
He promised to avenge his father's murder.
She was determined to avenge herself on the man who had betrayed her.
She vowed to avenge her brother's death.
He later avenged himself on his wife's killers.
He was later revenged on his wife's killers.
a hotel on Fifth Avenue
Several avenues are open to us.
We will explore every avenue until we find an answer.
She averred that she had never seen the man before.
an average rate/cost/price
Average earnings are around £20 000 per annum.
at an average speed of 100 miles per hour
40 hours is a fairly average working week for most people.
children of above/below average intelligence
£20 for dinner is about average.
I was just an average sort of student.
He was attractive and averagely intelligent.
The average of 4, 5 and 9 is 6.
Parents spend an average of $220 a year on toys.
If I get an A on this essay, that will bring my average (= average mark/grade) up to a B+.
Temperatures are above/below average for the time of year.
400 people a year die of this disease on average.
Class sizes in the school are below the national average.
Keep applying and by the law of averages you'll get a job sooner or later.
Economic growth is expected to average 2% next year.
Drivers in London can expect to average about 12 miles per hour (= to have that as their average speed).
Earnings are averaged over the whole period.
The cost should average out at about £6 per person.
Sometimes I pay, sometimes he pays—it seems to average out (= result in us paying the same amount).
I mentioned it to Kate and she wasn't averse to the idea.
He was averse to any change.
a strong aversion
He had an aversion to getting up early.
A disaster was narrowly averted.
He did his best to avert suspicion.
She averted her eyes from the terrible scene in front of her.
an avid reader/collector
She has taken an avid interest in the project (= she is extremely interested in it).
He was avid for more information.
She reads avidly.
The accident could have been avoided.
They narrowly avoided defeat.
The name was changed to avoid confusion with another firm.
They built a wall to avoid soil being washed away.
He's been avoiding me all week.
She kept avoiding my eyes (= avoided looking at me).
I left early to avoid the rush hour.
I've been avoiding getting down to work all day.
You should avoid mentioning his divorce.
The car swerved to avoid a cat.
Parents often fall into the trap of trying to do everything for their children.
Many deaths from heart disease are actually avoidable.
A person's health improves with the avoidance of stress.
An aide avowed that the President had known nothing of the deals.
an avowal of love
an avowed atheist
an avowed aim/intention/objective/purpose
Aw, come on, Andy!
He is in custody awaiting trial.
Her latest novel is eagerly awaited.
A warm welcome awaits all our guests.
to be half/fully awake
to be wide awake (= fully awake)
I was still awake when he came to bed.
The noise was keeping everyone awake.
I was finding it hard to stay awake.
He lies awake at night worrying about his job.
She was awake (= not unconscious) during the operation on her leg.
I awoke from a deep sleep.
He awoke to find her gone.
Her voice awoke the sleeping child.
What time do you usually wake up?
The children woke me up.
I was woken (up) by the telephone.
She awoke to a day of brilliant sunshine.
The Prince awakened Sleeping Beauty with a kiss.
I was awake half the night worrying.
Is the baby awake yet?
His speech is bound to awake old fears and hostilities.
It took her some time to awake to the dangers of her situation.
She awakened to the sound of birds singing.
We awakened to find the others gone.
He was awakened at dawn by the sound of crying.
The dream awakened terrible memories.
I gradually awakened to the realization that our marriage was over.
If they had expected a warm welcome, they were in for a rude awakening (= they would soon realize that it would not be warm).
sexual awakening
the awakening of interest in the environment
He was nominated for the best actor award.
an award presentation/ceremony
the Housing Design Award
to win/receive/get an award for sth
an annual pay award
an award of £600 000 in libel damages
Satisfactory completion of the course will lead to the award of the Diploma of Social Work.
The judges awarded equal points to both finalists.
The judges awarded both finalists equal points.
He was awarded damages of £50 000.
the award-winning TV drama
As you're aware, this is not a new problem.
As far as I'm aware, nobody has done anything about it.
acutely/painfully (= very) aware
I don't think people are really aware of just how much it costs.
He was well aware of the problem.
Everybody should be made aware of the risks involved.
Were you aware that something was wrong?
She slipped away without him being aware of it.
They suddenly became aware of people looking at them.
I was aware that she was trembling.
Young people are very environmentally aware.
an awareness of the importance of eating a healthy diet
There was an almost complete lack of awareness of the issues involved.
It is important that students develop an awareness of how the Internet can be used.
to raise/heighten/increase public awareness of sth
a greater/a growing/an increasing awareness of sth
environmental awareness (= knowing that looking after the environment is important)
Energy Awareness Week
There seems to be a general awareness that this is not the solution.
The city is awash with drugs.
The beach is a mile away.
Christmas is still months away.
The station is a few minutes' walk away from here.
Go away!
Put your toys away.
The bright light made her look away.
There were ten children away yesterday.
Sorry, he's away.
She was away from work for a week.
She was still writing away furiously when the bell went.
They were soon chatting away like old friends.
The water boiled away.
The music faded away.
They danced the night away (= all night).
Chelsea are playing away this Saturday.
an away match/game
Away with all these rules and regulations!
A brisk walk should blow the cobwebs away.
She's far and away the best player.
I want it sent right away.
I told him right off what I thought of him.
I'll do it straight away.
He works away from home during the week.
I don't want to be away from home for too long.
The management are having an awayday to discuss strategy.
We talked about it at the awayday.
awe and respect
awe and wonder
He speaks of her with awe.
'It's magnificent,' she whispered in awe.
While Diana was in awe of her grandfather, she adored her grandmother.
She seemed awed by the presence of so many famous people.
We watched in awed silence.
The building was awe-inspiring in size and design.
an awesome sight
awesome beauty/power
They had an awesome task ahead.
I just bought this awesome new CD!
Wow! That's totally awesome!
We had a great time in Madrid.
I think their new song's really cool.
'How was your holiday?' 'Fantastic!'
Jane's a fabulous cook.
She's doing a terrific job.
'How was the show?' 'Brilliant!'
The show was just awesome.
The adventure and action are truly epic in scope.
awesomely beautiful
People were awestruck by the pictures the satellite sent back to Earth.
That's an awful colour.
'They didn't even offer to pay.' 'Oh that's awful.'
It's awful, isn't it?
The weather last summer was awful.
I feel awful about forgetting her birthday.
to look/feel awful (= to look/feel ill)
There's an awful smell in here.
The awful thing is, it was my fault.
What terrible news!
That's a terrible thing to say!
The weather last summer was awful.
The coffee tasted horrible.
What dreadful weather!
There was a vile smell coming from the room.
He was in a vile mood.
The traffic around the city was horrendous.
It's going to cost an awful lot of money.
There's not an awful lot of room.
I feel an awful lot better than I did yesterday.
(BrE) I had an awful job persuading him to come (= it was very difficult).
the awful horrors of war
the sheer awfulness of the situation
Clint is awful smart.
I'm awfully sorry about that problem the other day.
He's gone AWOL from his base.
(humorous) The guitarist went AWOL in the middle of the recording.
All my plans for the party had gone awry.
She rushed out, her hair awry.
Up to 300 workers are facing the axe at a struggling Merseyside firm.
Patients are delighted their local hospital has been saved from the axe.
She had no axe to grind and was only acting out of concern for their safety.
Other less profitable services are to be axed later this year.
Jones has been axed from the team.
Mars takes longer to revolve on its axis than the Earth.
the vertical/horizontal axis
an axis of symmetry
The axis of a circle is its diameter.
the Franco-German axis
an axial road
It is axiomatic that life is not always easy.
the front/rear axle
'Did you see what happened?' 'Oh aye, I was there.'
The ayes have it (= more people have voted for sth than against it).
'Butter' begins with (a) B/'B'.
She got (a) B in/for History.
Shall we go for plan A or plan B?
Let's pretend A meets B in the park.
the B1224 to York
a TV chat show full of B-list celebrities
a B-movie actress
Emily Clifton, b. 1800
to be/have/do a BA
(BrE) Darren Green BA
a babble of voices
I can't listen to his constant babble.
They were all babbling away in a foreign language.
I realized I was babbling like an idiot.
a babbling brook
What're you doing tonight, babe?
Bob's such a babe magnet.
A sports car like that is a complete babe magnet.
The baby's crying!
a newborn baby
My sister's expecting a baby (= she is pregnant).
She had a baby last year.
a baby boy/girl
baby food/clothes
a baby monkey/blackbird
He's the baby of the team.
Stop crying and don't be such a baby.
He changed to another job and we were left holding the baby.
baby carrots
The president is taking baby steps in the direction of reform.
She regularly babysits for us.
He's babysitting the neighbour's children.
I can't find a babysitter for tonight.
to sit/take/pass/fail your baccalaureate
an eligible bachelor (= one that many people want to marry, especially because he is rich)
a confirmed bachelor (= a person who does not intend to marry; often used in newspapers to refer to a homosexual man)
a Bachelor of Arts/Engineering/Science
Do you sleep on your back or your front?
He stood with his back to the door.
They had their hands tied behind their backs.
back pain
a back massage
A small boy rode on the elephant's back.
She broke her back in a riding accident.
He put his back out (= dislocated sth in his back) lifting the crates.
We could only get seats at the back (= of the room).
I found some old photos at the back of the drawer.
He was shot in the back of the knee.
The house has three bedrooms at the front and two at the back.
(BrE) There's room for three people in the back.
(NAmE) There's room for three people in back (= of a car, etc.).
(BrE) Come round the back (= to the area behind the house) and I'll show you the garden.
What's that at the back of the fridge?
Smoking is only allowed at the rear of the aircraft.
Our room was at the back of the hotel.
There's a lovely wood just behind our hotel.
Write your name on the back of the cheque.
The television guide is at the back of the paper.
a high-backed sofa
I think you've got that sweater on back to front.
Was I pleased to see the back of her!
Have you been talking about me behind my back?
They went ahead and sold it behind my back.
That sort of attitude really gets my back up!
Just get off my back, will you!
Don't worry, I've got your back.
The profits growth came on the back of a 26 per cent rise in sales.
When on stage, try not to turn your back on the audience.
She turned her back on them when they needed her.
This is where I grew up. I know this area like the back of my hand.
I tried to push the thought to the back of my mind.
We were sitting in the back row.
back teeth
a back room (= one at the back of a building)
the back page of a newspaper
a back number of the magazine
back pay/taxes/rent
I stepped back to let them pass.
Sit back and relax.
You've combed your hair back.
He turned and looked back.
She fell back towards the end of the race.
The barriers kept the crowd back.
Stand back and give me some room.
He could no longer hold back his tears.
Put the book back on the shelf.
Please give me my ball back.
He'll be back on Monday.
It takes me an hour to walk there and back.
Could you go back to the beginning of the story?
She woke up briefly and then went back to sleep.
We were right back where we started, only this time without any money.
The village has a history going back to the Middle Ages.
She left back in November.
That was a few years back.
We should have turned left five kilometres back.
Back at home, her parents were worried.
I can't wait to get back home.
If he kicks me, I'll kick him back.
Could you call back later, please?
ferries sailing back and forth between the islands
My dad's always talking about how great everything was back in the day.
I was a fan back in the days when the band wasn't yet famous.
the houses back of the church
If this suggestion isn't accepted, we'll be back to square one.
He backed against the wall, terrified.
If you can't drive in forwards, try backing it in.
Her parents backed her in her choice of career.
Doctors have backed plans to raise the tax on cigarettes.
The programme of economic reform is backed (= given financial support) by foreign aid.
a United Nations-backed peace plan
I backed the winner and won fifty pounds.
The house is backed by fields.
She refused to back down on a point of principle.
As the riot police approached, the crowd backed off.
Back off! There's no need to yell at me.
The press have agreed to back off and leave the couple alone.
The government backed off from a confrontation.
Our house backs onto the river.
He lost confidence and backed out of the deal at the last minute.
You can back up another two feet or so.
I backed the car up to the door.
I'll back you up if they don't believe you.
The writer doesn't back up his opinions with examples.
two doctors backed up by a team of nurses
The rebels backed up their demands with threats.
He resigned as Home Secretary and returned to the back benches.
back-bench MPs
The entire Beatles' back catalogue has been put online.
He used his friends to help him get into the civil service by the back door.
the back end of last year
I tried to get my life back on track after my divorce.
a back-alley abortion
He back-heeled the ball towards goal.
The protests have forced the government to back-pedal on the new tax.
back-to-backs built for the poor in the 19th century
(BrE) to have backache/a backache
(NAmE) to have a backache
Agriculture forms the backbone of the rural economy.
He doesn't have the backbone to face the truth.
Postal workers are getting a 5.2% pay rise, backdated to February.
The mountains provided a dramatic backdrop for our picnic.
It was against this backdrop of racial tension that the civil war began.
Unfortunately the plan backfired.
a person's family/social/cultural/educational/class background
The job would suit someone with a business background.
the historical background to the war
background information/knowledge
The elections are taking place against a background of violence.
Can you give me more background on the company?
a photograph with trees in the background
An unhappy home environment can affect children's behaviour.
a pleasant working environment
The island provided an idyllic setting for the concert.
The huts blend in perfectly with their surroundings.
The mountains in the background were capped with snow.
a photograph of the house
Can I take a photograph?
We had our picture taken in front of the hotel.
a passport photo
I tried to get a shot of him in the water.
holiday snaps
a set of prints
He prefers to remain in the background and let his assistant talk to the press.
A piano tinkled gently in the background.
background music
There was a lot of background noise (= that you could hear, but were not listening to).
The name of the company is written in red on a white background.
He has a good backhand (= he can make good backhand strokes).
a backhand volley/drive
financial backing
The police gave the proposals their full backing.
a backing group/singer/track
The government is facing an angry backlash from voters over the new tax.
a backlit photograph
the backmost teeth
a weed-sprayer backpack
They went backpacking in Spain last year.
The company filed for bankruptcy (= asked to be officially bankrupt ) in 2009.
moral/political bankruptcy
There could be further bankruptcies among small farmers.
Get up off your backside and do some work!
backslapping tributes
After the show, we were allowed to go backstage to meet the cast.
I'd like to know what really goes on backstage in government.
backstairs deals between politicians
The film spends too long establishing the characters' backstories.
First, some backstory:…
backstreet dealers
backstreet abortions
Can you do (the) backstroke?
He won the 100 metres backstroke (= the race).
The police had backup from the army.
We can use him as a backup if one of the other players drops out.
a backup power supply
Always make a backup of your work.
a backup copy
She strode past him without a backward glance.
She felt that going back to live in her home town would be a backward step.
a backward part of the country, with no paved roads and no electricity
a backward child
(BrE, informal) She's not backward in coming forward (= she's not shy).
She rocked backwards and forwards on her chair.
I lost my balance and fell backwards.
He took a step backwards.
'Ambulance' is written backwards so you can read it in the mirror.
In the movie they take a journey backwards through time.
I felt that going to live with my parents would be a step backwards.
I've bent over backwards to help him.
She must know the play backwards by now.
a sleepy/quiet/rural backwater
a backyard barbecue
The residents didn't want a new factory in their backyard.
The party leader is facing opposition in his own backyard (= from his own members).
a rasher of bacon
bacon and eggs
smoked/unsmoked bacon
bacterial infections/growth
bad news/weather/dreams/habits
I'm having a really bad day.
It was the worst experience of her life.
Smoking gives you bad breath.
Things are bad enough without our own guns shelling us.
bad conditions/driving
a bad copy/diet
I thought it was a very bad article.
This isn't as bad as I thought.
That's not a bad idea.
a bad teacher
You're a bad liar!
He's a bad loser (= he complains when he loses a game).
She is so bad at keeping secrets.
You're heading for a bad attack of sunburn.
The engagement was a bad mistake.
My headache is getting worse.
I know that this is a bad time to ask for help.
He now realized that it had been a bad decision on his part.
The hero gets to shoot all the bad guys.
He said I must have done something bad to deserve it.
Have you been a bad boy?
Those shoes are bad for her feet.
Weather like this is bad for business.
I've got a bad back.
Put the meat in the fridge so it doesn't go bad.
It put me in a bad mood for the rest of the day.
She felt bad about leaving him.
Why should I want to make you feel bad?
I'm afraid I'm feeling pretty bad.
I feel unwell / sick / terrible.
I don't feel (very) well.
You'll save fifty dollars, which can't be bad, can it?
You're not seeing him again tonight, are you? That's five times this week—you've got it bad!
'How are you?' 'Not too bad.'
That wasn't bad for a first attempt.
If sometimes they're the wrong decisions, too bad.
Too bad every day can't be as good as this.
Really, it was too bad of you to be so late.
You will always have the bad as well as the good in the world.
I hate to see you going to the bad.
I'm sorry—my bad.
After the sale they were £300 to the bad.
She wanted it real bad.
Are you hurt bad?
He used to be known as the bad boy of Hollywood.
Have I got bad breath?
No one wants to employ somebody who bad-mouths their former employer.
She gets very bad-tempered when she's tired.
Bad luck, Helen, you played very well.
It's hard luck on him that he wasn't chosen.
There was a lot of bad feeling between the two groups of students.
As usual, the cops get the baddies in the end.
She wore a badge saying 'Vote for Coates'.
All employees have to wear name badges.
the school badge
He pulled out a badge and said he was a cop.
His gun was a badge of power for him.
I finally badgered him into coming with us.
Reporters constantly badger her about her private life.
His daughter was always badgering him to let her join the club.
to play/sing badly
badly designed/organized
Things have been going badly.
I did badly (= was not successful) in my exams.
to behave/sleep badly
badly paid/treated
The kids took the dog's death very badly (= they were very unhappy).
The economic crisis reflects badly on the government's policies.
She's only trying to help, so don't think badly of her.
The building is badly in need of repair.
They wanted to win so badly.
I miss her badly.
badly damaged/injured/hurt
The country has been badly affected by recession.
Everything's gone badly wrong!
We aren't too badly off but we can't afford a house like that.
I've got quite a big room so I'm not too badly off.
There was not a hint of badness in him.
His behaviour baffles me.
I'm baffled as to why she hasn't called.
I'm baffled why she hasn't called.
His reaction was one of bafflement.
He won a BAFTA for the role.
a plastic/polythene/paper bag
a laundry/mail bag
a black plastic rubbish/garbage bag
a shopping bag
a make-up bag
He's upstairs unpacking his bags.
She opened her bag (= her handbag ) and took out her comb.
She ate a bag of chips.
Get in! There's bags of room.
He threw her out onto the street, bag and baggage.
I wanted it to be a surprise, but my sister let the cat out of the bag.
The fruit is washed, sorted and bagged at the farm.
Harkin bagged two goals in last night's win.
Sally had managed to bag the two best seats.
Quick, bag that table over there!
They decided to bag the trip because they were short of cash.
Bags I sit in the front seat!
It cost a mere bagatelle.
excess baggage (= weighing more than the limit allowed on a plane)
baggage handlers (= people employed to load and unload baggage at airports)
(NAmE) We loaded our baggage into the car.
Do you have a lot of luggage?
Two pieces of luggage have gone missing.
Never leave baggage unattended.
She was carrying a lot of emotional baggage.
a baggy T-shirt
bagpipe music
a cheese baguette
Can anyone put up bail for you?
She was released on £2 000 bail.
Bail was set at $1 million.
He committed another offence while he was out on bail (= after bail had been agreed).
The judge granted/refused bail.
She jumped/skipped bail (= did not appear at her trial).
He was bailed to appear in court on 15 March.
Sorry, I really have to bail.
I'd understand if you wanted to bail out of this relationship.
He had to stop rowing to bail water out of the boat.
The boat will sink unless we bail out.
The government had to bail the company out of financial difficulty.
Ryan's late goal bailed out his team.
Doctors were unable to save him.
a campaign to save the panda from extinction
They were rescued by a passing cruise ship.
Don't expect me to bail you out if it all goes wrong.
He was a sinner, redeemed by the grace of God.
The fish took the bait.
He baited the trap with a piece of meat.
bear-baiting
My inbox contained a bajillion emails when I came back from my holiday.
baked apples
the delicious smell of baking bread
I'm baking a birthday cake for Alex.
I'm baking Alex a cake.
The bricks are left in the kiln to bake.
The sun had baked the ground hard.
We sat baking in the sun.
a pasta/vegetable bake
a baked potato and beans
I'm just going to the baker's.
a baking dish/tin
This newspaper maintains a good balance in its presentation of different opinions.
Tourists often disturb the delicate balance of nature on the island.
His wife's death disturbed the balance of his mind.
Try to keep a balance between work and relaxation.
Athletes need a good sense of balance.
I struggled to keep my balance on my new skates.
She cycled round the corner, lost her balance and fell off.
to check your bank balance (= to find out how much money there is in your account)
The balance of $500 must be paid within 90 days.
On balance, the company has had a successful year.
In an interview, smart presentation can tip the scales in your favour.
How long can you balance on one leg?
The television was precariously balanced on top of a pile of books.
She balanced the cup on her knee.
The good and bad effects of any decision will usually balance out.
This year's profits will balance out our previous losses.
His lack of experience was balanced by a willingness to learn.
She tries to balance home life and career.
The cost of obtaining legal advice needs to be balanced against its benefits.
I tried to work out why the books wouldn't balance.
a balance-of-trade deficit (= when a country spends more on imports than it earns from exports)
The programme presented a balanced view of the two sides of the conflict.
a balanced diet (= one with the quantity and variety of food needed for good health)
The UN must perform a delicate balancing act between the different sides in the conflict.
He started going bald in his twenties.
Our dog has a bald patch on its leg.
a bald tyre (= a tyre whose surface has become smooth)
The bald fact is that we don't need you any longer.
The letter was a bald statement of our legal position.
bald-faced lies
a short balding man with glasses
'You're lying,' he said baldly.
bales of hay/straw/cotton/wool
The waste paper is baled, then sent for recycling.
a baleful look/influence
the Balkan Peninsula
a golf/tennis/cricket ball
Bounce the ball and try and hit it over the net.
The sun was a huge ball of fire low on the horizon.
a ball of string
Some animals roll themselves into a ball for protection.
He sent over a high ball.
They've offered me the job, so the ball's in my court now.
It's up to the private sector to take the ball and run with it.
Chris was in the park playing ball with the kids.
I panicked, I cried—the whole ball of wax.
My co-worker was sick, so I had to carry the ball.
Her hands balled into fists.
My hands were balled into fists.
Are you going to the ball game?
a medieval ballad about a knight and a lady
Her latest single is a ballad.
She wants to be a ballet dancer.
ballet shoes
'Swan Lake' is one of the great classical ballets.
members of the Royal Ballet
He went ballistic when I told him.
to blow up/burst/pop a balloon
Her skirt ballooned out in the wind.
The chairperson is chosen by secret ballot.
The union cannot call a strike unless it holds a ballot of members.
Who did you vote for in the last election?
They took a vote on who should go first.
They suffered a defeat at the polls.
The leader will be chosen by secret ballot.
What percentage of eligible voters cast their ballots?
She won 58.8% of the ballot.
The union balloted its members on the proposed changes.
The workers balloted for a strike.
The people make their wishes known through the ballot box.
The offers for the contract were all in the same ballpark.
If you said five million you'd be in the ballpark.
Give me a ballpark figure (= a number that is approximately right).
That's a load of balls!
She's got balls, I'll say that for her.
It took a lot of balls to do that.
The team went balls out in the final.
a balls-out attack
It's a balls-out shoot-'em-up action movie.
I made a real balls-up of my exams.
She is one ballsy lady!
lip balm
a balmy summer evening
Don't give me that baloney!
the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania
She pointed the gun at him and—bam!
I saw him yesterday and—bam!—I realized I was still in love with him.
a bamboo grove
a bamboo chair
bamboo shoots (= young bamboo plants that can be eaten)
Chemical weapons are banned internationally.
He was banned from the meeting.
She's been banned from leaving Greece while the allegations are investigated.
(BrE) He was banned from driving for six months.
There is to be a total ban on smoking in the office.
to impose/lift a ban
the banality of modern city life
They exchanged banalities for a couple of minutes.
a bunch of bananas
a rock/jazz band
She's a singer with a band.
a military band
a band of outlaws
He persuaded a small band of volunteers to help.
She always ties her hair back in a band.
All babies in the hospital have name bands on their wrists.
She wore a simple band of gold (= a ring) on her finger.
a white plate with a blue band around the edge
Short-wave radio uses the 20–50–metre band.
the 25–35 age band
tax bands
Many insects are banded black and yellow.
Tax is banded according to income.
Local people banded together to fight the drug dealers.
a bandeau bikini top
to be bandy-legged
His name was being bandied about as a future prime minister.
The police bandobast was very effective.
The World Cup bandwagon is starting to roll.
politicians eager to jump on the environmental bandwagon
The neighbours' kids are the bane of my life.
She banged on the door angrily.
The baby was banging the table with his spoon.
The boy was hit by a speeding car.
Someone had knocked a hole in the wall.
The baby was banging the table with his spoon.
The ship struck a rock.
In the darkness I bumped into a chair.
I braked too late, bashing into the car in front.
A window was banging somewhere (= opening and closing noisily).
The door banged shut behind her.
Don't bang the door when you go out!
He banged the money down on the counter.
She banged saucepans around irritably.
She tripped and banged her knee on the desk.
We could hear the kids banging around upstairs.
I banged into a chair and hurt my leg.
He keeps banging on about his new job.
The door swung shut with a bang.
Suddenly there was a loud bang and a puff of smoke.
a bang on the head
The party went with a bang.
The team won their last four games, ending the season with a bang.
Our computers are bang up to date.
My estimate was bang on target.
You're bang on time, as usual
Bang went my hopes of promotion.
A balloon suddenly went bang.
We've got you bang to rights handling stolen property.
'Bang, bang, you're dead!' shouted the little boy.
Two days after the accident she still looked pretty banged up.
bangers and mash
He was banished to Australia, where he died five years later.
The children were banished from the dining room.
The sight of food banished all other thoughts from my mind.
to hold on to the banister/banisters
My salary is paid directly into my bank.
I need to go to the bank (= the local office of a bank).
a bank loan
a bank manager
a bank of knowledge
a blood/sperm bank
He jumped in and swam to the opposite bank.
It's on the north bank of the Thames.
a house on the banks of the River Severn (= on land near the river)
There were low banks of earth between the rice fields.
The girls ran down the steep grassy bank.
The sun disappeared behind a bank of clouds.
a bank of lights/switches/computers
She is believed to have banked (= been paid) £10 million in two years.
The family had banked with Coutts for generations.
The plane banked steeply to the left.
They banked the earth (up) into a mound.
The fire was banked up as high as if it were midwinter.
I'm banking on your help.
'I'm sure he'll help.' ' Don't bank on it (= it is not likely to happen).'
I'm banking on you to help me.
I was banking on getting something to eat on the train.
The snow had banked up against the wall.
to open/close a bank account
Bank Holiday Monday
a bank holiday weekend (= a weekend followed by a Monday which is a holiday)
The movie's success has made her one of the world's most bankable stars.
a merchant banker
She's thinking about a career in banking.
forged (= illegally copied) banknotes
They claimed his campaign had been bankrolled with drug money.
He is the candidate with the biggest campaign bankroll.
They went bankrupt in 2009.
The company was declared bankrupt in the High Court.
a government bankrupt of new ideas
a society that is morally bankrupt
The company was almost bankrupted by legal costs.
Protesters carried a banner reading 'Save our Wildlife'.
a state banquet in honour of the visiting President
a banqueting hall
a bantamweight champion
He enjoyed exchanging banter with the customers.
He bantered with reporters and posed for photographers.
There was a friendly, bantering tone in his voice.
She was baptized Mary.
I was baptized a Catholic.
a baptismal service/ceremony
a Baptist church
We met at a bar called the Flamingo.
the island's only licensed bar (= one that is allowed to sell alcoholic drinks)
a cocktail bar
(BrE) I found David in the bar of the Red Lion (= a room in a pub where drinks are served).
She was sitting at the bar.
It was so crowded I couldn't get to the bar.
a sandwich bar
a coffee bar
a bar of chocolate/soap
candy bars
He smashed the window with an iron bar.
All the ground floor windows were fitted with bars.
a five-bar gate (= one made with five horizontal bars of wood)
His shot hit the bar.
Bars of sunlight slanted down from the tall narrow windows.
At that time being a woman was a bar to promotion in most professions.
four beats to the bar
the opening bars of a piece of music
to be called to the Bar (= allowed to work as a qualified barrister )
If he tries to sell you his car, don't have a bar of it.
The murderer is now safely behind bars.
The show really sets the bar for artistic invention.
In the current economic climate we may need to lower the bar on quotas.
The factory has raised the bar on productivity, food safety and quality.
All the doors and windows were barred.
Two police officers were barring her exit.
We found our way barred by rocks.
The players are barred from drinking alcohol the night before a match.
The students all attended, bar two who were ill.
It's the best result we've ever had, bar none (= none was better).
barbarian invasions of the fifth century
a barbaric act/custom/ritual
The way these animals are killed is barbaric.
the barbarism of war
the barbarous treatment of these prisoners of war
I put another steak on the barbecue.
a barbecue sausage (= cooked in this way)
Let's have a barbecue!
Work-life balance is a barbecue stopper for Australians.
a barbed wire fence
a barbershop quartet
She likes to walk around in bare feet.
the bare branches of winter trees
a bare mountainside
bare wooden floorboards
Bare wires were sticking out of the cable.
The walls were bare except for a clock.
The fridge was completely bare.
bare shelves
The family was short of even the bare necessities of life.
We only had the bare essentials in the way of equipment.
He did the bare minimum of work but still passed the exam.
She gave me only the bare facts of the case.
It was the barest hint of a smile.
The plain fact is that nobody really knows.
The simple truth is that we just can't afford it.
The problem was due to the simple fact that…
The stark truth is that there is not enough money left.
She gave me only the bare facts of the case.
The reply was an unequivocal 'no'.
the bare bones of the story
He was capable of killing a man with his bare hands.
Every aspect of their private lives has been laid bare.
They are seeking more funds but the cupboard is bare.
She was paid several thousand dollars to bare all (= take all her clothes off) for the magazine.
The dog bared its teeth and growled.
The party on Saturday was bare good!
a bareback rider
riding bareback
a barefaced lie
barefaced cheek
poor children going barefoot in the street
The music was barely audible.
She was barely able to stand.
We barely had time to catch the train.
She barely acknowledged his presence.
There was barely any smell.
Barely 50% of the population voted.
He was barely 20 years old and already running his own company.
They arrived barely a minute later.
I had barely started speaking when he interrupted me.
They have sold scarcely any copies of the book.
I barely recognized her.
His words were barely audible.
I can hardly believe it.
We had hardly/scarcely/barely sat down at the table, when the phone rang.
Hardly/Scarcely had we sat down at the table, when the phone rang.
I scarcely had time to ring the bell before the door opened.
No sooner had we sat down at the table than the phone rang.
She hardly (ever) sees her parents these days.
I picked up a few good bargains in the sale.
The car was a bargain at that price.
bargain prices
He and his partner had made a bargain to tell each other everything.
I've done what I promised and I expect you to keep your side of the bargain (= do what you agreed in return).
Finally the two sides struck a bargain (= reached an agreement).
Volunteers learn a lot and enjoy themselves into the bargain.
In the market dealers were bargaining with growers over the price of coffee.
He said he wasn't prepared to bargain.
They felt that their leaders had bargained away their freedom.
We hadn't bargained for this sudden change in the weather.
When he agreed to answer a few questions, he got more than he bargained for (= he got more questions, or more difficult ones, than he had expected).
I didn't bargain on finding them here as well.
I hadn't bargained on them being here.
bargain-basement prices
After much hard bargaining we reached an agreement.
wage bargaining
Exporters are in a strong bargaining position at the moment.
He barged past me to get to the bar.
They barged their way through the crowds.
I hope you don't mind me barging in like this.
He barged in on us while we were having a meeting.
a bark of laughter
The dog suddenly started barking at us.
She barked out an order.
He barked questions at her.
'Who are you?' he barked.
You're barking up the wrong tree if you're expecting us to lend you any money.
lemon barley water
a hay barn
They live in a converted barn (= a barn that has been turned into a house).
They live in a great barn of a house.
He barnstormed across the southern states in an attempt to woo the voters.
The barometer is falling (= showing that it will probably rain).
Infant mortality is a reliable barometer of socio-economic conditions.
barometric pressure
a press baron
drug barons
Baroness Thatcher
a baronial hall
baroque churches/music
the baroque period
paintings representative of the baroque
an army barracks
The troops were ordered back to barracks.
a barrack unit
a barrage of questions/criticisms/complaints
a beer/wine barrel
They got through two barrels of beer.
Oil prices fell to $9 a barrel.
He sold the business lock, stock and barrel.
What do you mean you can't do it? It'll be like shooting fish in a barrel!
He came barreling down the hill and smashed into a phone booth.
a barren desert
a barren landscape (= one that is empty, with few plants)
The team will come through this barren patch and start to win again.
The police stormed the barricades the demonstrators had put up.
They barricaded all the doors and windows.
He had barricaded himself in his room.
The crowd had to stand behind barriers.
Show your ticket at the barrier.
the removal of trade barriers
Lack of confidence is a psychological barrier to success.
The Yangtze River is a natural barrier to the north-east.
the language barrier (= when people cannot communicate because they do not speak the same language)
There was no real barrier between reality and fantasy in his mind.
Ozone is the earth's barrier against ultra-violet radiation.
the first player whose earnings passed the $10 million barrier
Barring accidents, we should arrive on time.
a topic much discussed in barrooms across the country
a barroom brawl
The prisoners tried to barter with the guards for items like writing paper and books.
The local people bartered wheat for tools.
The islanders use a system of barter instead of money.
basal cells of the skin
the base of a column/glass
a pain at the base of the spine
The lamp has a heavy base.
Footnotes are given at the bottom of each page.
I waited for them at the bottom of the hill.
The lamp has a heavy base.
to lay the foundations of the new school
At the foot of the stairs she turned to face him.
She used her family's history as a base for her novel.
His arguments have a sound economic base.
This article will form the basis for our discussion.
Respect and friendship provide a solid foundation for marriage.
The rumour is totally without foundation(= is not based on any facts).
He laid the foundations of Japan's modern economy.
These figures formed the basis of their pay claim.
His arguments have a sound economic base.
These policies have a broad base of support.
an economy with a solid manufacturing base
All we got was base pay—we didn't reach profitability levels to award a bonus.
a drink with a rum base
Put some moisturizer on as a base before applying your make-up.
I spend a lot of time in Britain but Paris is still my base.
The town is an ideal base for touring the area.
The company has its base in New York, and branch offices all over the world.
a military/naval base
an air base
After the attack, they returned to base.
If that's what you think, you're way off base.
They decided to base the new company in York.
We're going to base ourselves in Tokyo and make trips from there.
What are you basing this theory on?
He acted from base motives.
a baseball bat/team/stadium
a pair of baseball boots
The movie is based on a real-life incident.
The report is based on figures from six different European cities.
We're based in Chicago.
a Chicago-based company
lead-based paints
a class-based society
The rumours were completely baseless.
The figures for 2014 were used as a baseline for the study.
Kitchen goods are sold in the basement.
a basement flat/apartment
He bashed her over the head with a hammer.
I braked too late and bashed into the car in front.
Bashing politicians is normal practice in the press.
a liberal-bashing administration
He sat bashing away at his essay all day.
We'll never get finished at this rate. We'd better bash on.
The police bashed the door down.
I'll bash your head in if you do that again.
She bashed out about four books a year.
He gave Mike a bash on the nose.
a birthday bash
I'm not sure I'll be any good but I'll have a bash.
She smiled bashfully.
union-bashing
gay-bashing (= attacking homosexuals)
to give sb a bashing
basic information/facts/ideas
the basic principles of law
Drums are basic to African music.
The campsite provided only basic facilities.
My knowledge of French is pretty basic.
basic human rights
the cost of basic foods
The basic pay of the average worker has risen by 3 per cent.
Yes, that's basically correct.
The two approaches are basically very similar.
There have been some problems but basically it's a good system.
Basically, there's not a lot we can do about it.
He basically just sits there and does nothing all day.
And that's it, basically.
the basics of computer programming
Some schools lack money for basics like books and pencils.
a pudding basin
the Amazon Basin
the Pacific Basin
a yacht basin
She was chosen for the job on the basis of her qualifications.
Some movies have been banned on the basis that they are too violent.
He said no but he didn't give a reason.
The most likely explanation is that his plane was delayed.
She left the room abruptly without explanation.
You have no grounds for complaint.
On what basis will this decision be made?
Late again! What's your excuse this time?
It gave me an excuse to take the car.
There seemed to be no motive for the murder.
I can see no possible justification for any further tax increases.
He left the party early on the pretext of having to work.
on a regular/permanent/part-time/temporary basis
on a daily/day-to-day/weekly basis
The basis of a good marriage is trust.
The theory seems to have no basis in fact.
We sat basking in the warm sunshine.
He had always basked in his parents' attention.
I never minded basking in my wife's reflected glory (= enjoying the praise, attention, etc. she got).
a shopping basket
a picnic basket
a clothes/laundry basket (= in which dirty clothes are put before being washed)
a wicker/wire basket
a cat/dog basket (= in which a cat or dog sleeps or is carried around)
a basket of fruit
Click to drop items into your shopping basket.
to make/shoot a basket
the value of the rupee against a basket of currencies
a basketball game/coach/team
He always plays his stereo with the bass turned right up.
He sings bass.
a pounding bass line
a bass player
bass and drums
Eilís Phillips on (= playing) bass
a bass voice
the bass clef (= the symbol in music showing that the notes following it are low)
He's a real bastard.
You bastard! You've made her cry.
What a lucky bastard!
You poor bastard!
It's a bastard of a problem.
a bastion of male privilege
a bastion of freedom
a baseball/cricket bat
We both liked each other right off the bat.
He bats very well.
Who's batting first for the Orioles?
He batted the wasp away.
She didn't bat an eyelid when I told her my news.
It's just an idea we've been batting around.
a battalion of supporters
Each summer a new batch of students tries to find work.
We deliver the goods in batches.
a batch of cookies
to process a batch job
a batch file/program
The service will be improved by batching and sorting enquiries.
We waited with bated breath for the winner to be announced.
a long soak in a hot bath
Please run a bath for me (= fill the bath with water).
I think I'll have a bath and go to bed.
(especially NAmE) to take a bath
Roman villas and baths
It's your turn to bath the baby.
Let's go for a quick swim in the pool.
She goes swimming every morning before breakfast.
Bathe the wound and apply a clean dressing.
Have you bathed the baby yet?
I bathe every day.
The moon bathed the countryside in a silver light.
to go for a bathe
The castle was bathed in moonlight.
I was so nervous that I was bathed in perspiration.
facilities for bathing and boating
a safe bathing beach
Go and wash your hands in the bathroom.
I have to go to the bathroom (= use the toilet).
Where's the bathroom?(= for example in a restaurant)
We were allowed to stop occasionally for bathroom breaks.
a baton charge (= one made by police carrying batons, to force a crowd back)
to pass/hand over the baton
(figurative) The President handed over the baton (= passed responsibility) to his successor.
He was busy battening down all the shutters and doors.
She battered at the door with her fists.
He had been badly battered about the head and face.
Her killer had battered her to death.
Severe winds have been battering the north coast.
a battered old car
battered women/children
The child had suffered what has become known as 'battered baby syndrome.'
Rockets and shells continued to hit the battered port.
to replace the batteries
a rechargeable battery
battery-powered/-operated
a car battery
The battery is flat (= it is no longer producing electricity).
He faced a battery of questions.
a battery of reporters
a battery hen
battery eggs
wife battering
(figurative) The film took a battering from critics in the US.
the battle of Waterloo
to be killed in battle
a gun battle
a legal battle for compensation
a battle with an insurance company
a battle of wits (= when each side uses their ability to think quickly to try to win)
a battle of wills (= when each side is very determined to win)
the campaign for parliamentary reform
an advertising campaign
She finally won the legal battle for compensation.
the endless battle between man and nature
the struggle for independence
the struggle between good and evil
the battle/struggle between good and evil
the drive for greater efficiency
a drive to reduce energy consumption
From today, we're going on an economy drive (= we must spend less).
the war against crime
Workers won their fight to stop compulsory redundancies.
her long battle against cancer
to fight an uphill battle against prejudice
a battle for survival
his battle with alcoholism
I wouldn't get involved—he's old enough to fight his own battles.
(figurative) Local residents have joined battle with the council over the lack of parking facilities.
Both teams battled hard.
I had to battle hard just to stay afloat.
She's still battling with a knee injury.
The two leaders are battling for control of the government.
The two sides will battle it out in the final next week.
He battled cancer for four years.
Many parents may baulk at the idea of paying $100 for a pair of shoes.
She looked like a lion baulked of its prey.
She bawled at him in front of everyone.
He sat in his office bawling orders at his secretary.
'Get in here now!' she bawled out.
A child was bawling in the next room.
He was bawling his eyes out (= crying very loudly).
The teacher bawled him out for being late.
the Bay of Bengal
Hudson Bay
a magnificent view across the bay
a parking/loading bay
Put the equipment in No 3 bay.
He was riding a big bay.
I'm trying to keep my creditors at bay.
Charlotte bit her lip to hold the tears at bay.
a pack of baying hounds
The referee's decision left the crowd baying for blood (= threatening violence towards him).
a bay mare
The news is on BBC One at 6.
BBC Radio 4
in (the year) 2000 BC
the third century BC
Send an email to the head of finance and bcc me.
That company keeps bcc'ing promotional emails to me.
He now bcc'ed his boss on every email he sent to difficult clients.
in (the year) 2000 BCE
the third century BCE
Is there a God?
Once upon a time there was a princess…
I tried phoning but there was no answer.
There's a bank down the road.
Was there a pool at the hotel?
The town is three miles away.
If you're looking for your file, it's on the table.
Mary's upstairs.
The party is on Friday evening.
The meetings are always in the main conference room.
She has been in her room for hours.
They're here till Christmas.
I'll be at the party.
He'll be here soon (= will arrive soon).
I've never been to Spain.
He had been abroad many times.
(BrE) Has the postman been yet?
Has the mailman come yet?
She's from Italy.
Today is Monday.
'Who is that?' 'It's my brother.'
She's a great beauty.
Susan is a doctor.
He wants to be (= become) a pilot when he grows up.
It's beautiful!
Life is unfair.
He is ten years old.
'How are you?' 'I'm very well, thanks.'
Be quick!
The fact is (that) we don't have enough money.
The problem is getting it all done in the time available.
The problem is to get it all done in the time available.
It was really hot in the sauna.
It's strange how she never comes to see us any more.
He thinks it's clever to make fun of people.
It would be a shame if you lost it.
It's going to be a great match.
It's two thirty.
It was late at night when we finally arrived.
Is your jacket real leather?
The money's not yours, it's John's.
This package is for you.
'How much is that dress?' 'Eighty dollars.'
Three and three is six.
How much is a thousand pounds in euros?
Let x be the sum of a and b.
London is not England (= do not think that all of England is like London).
Money isn't everything (= it is not the only important thing).
A thousand dollars is nothing to somebody as rich as he is.
Her career is the be-all and end-all of her existence.
If it weren't for you, I wouldn't be alive today.
Leave her be, she obviously doesn't want to talk about it.
Let the poor dog be (= don't annoy it).
I never imagined that our company share prices would fall so low, but it is what it is.
He was killed in the war.
Where were they made?
The house was still being built.
You will be told what to do.
I am studying Chinese.
I'll be seeing him soon.
What have you been doing this week?
I'm always being criticized.
You're not hungry, are you?
Ben's coming, isn't he?
The old theatre was pulled down, wasn't it?
Karen wasn't beaten in any of her games, but all the others were.
'Are you coming with us?' 'No, I'm not.'
I am to call them once I reach the airport.
You are to report this to the police.
What is to be done about this problem?
They are to be married in June.
He was to regret that decision for the rest of his life (= he did regret it).
Anna was nowhere to be found (= we could not find her anywhere).
He was never to see his wife again (= although he did not know it would be so at the time, he did not see her again).
She wanted to write a successful novel, but it was not to be (= it turned out never to happen).
If we were to offer you more money, would you stay?
Were we to offer you more money, would you stay?
I've never been a great one for fish and chips.
to be party to a decision
He refused to be a party to any violence.
He has been witness to a terrible murder.
His good health is a witness to the success of the treatment.
It's all downhill from here. We'll soon be finished.
It's been all downhill for his career since then, with four defeats in five games.
I started work as a journalist and it was downhill all the way for my health.
I don't want you to leave, but perhaps it's for the best.
Why are you so dead set against the idea?
A little tiredness after taking these drugs is to be expected.
She's a good sport.
Go on, be a sport (= used when asking sb to help you).
It's a crying shame to waste all that food.
She's a dead ringer for a girl I used to know.
Go on, be a devil, buy both of them.
Profit is not a dirty word around here.
For her the whole project was just a game.
I'm not sure if Friday's trip is a go.
It's a good thing we got here early.
I've never been a great one for writing letters.
You're a great one for quizzes, aren't you?
The rose bushes are a mass of flowers in June.
Her arm was a mass of bruises.
This job's a snap.
This suit is a steal at $80.
'Do you know what he said?' 'Go on—I'm all ears.'
It was all go in the office today.
These problems are all in your mind, you know.
It's all the same to me whether we eat now or later.
Are they an item?
I know which area they live in, but whether I can find their house is a different matter.
What is at issue is whether she was responsible for her actions.
He's always at odds with his father over politics.
These findings are at odds with what is going on in the rest of the country.
She was at great pains to stress the advantages of the new system.
I'm at your command—what would you like me to do?
I'm at the end of my patience.
They are at the end of their food supply.
She found herself on the receiving end of a great deal of criticism.
Central heating is bad news for indoor plants.
Trying to reason with them was like banging my head against a brick wall.
Yes, I know it was an accident, but that's beside the point.
Families will be better off under the new law.
Her promotion means she's $100 a week better off.
She's better off without him.
The weather was so bad we'd have been better off staying at home.
She's better off without him.
The weather was so bad we'd have been better off staying at home.
We can't be any worse off than we are already.
It's beyond me why she wants to marry Jeff.
He's been bitten by the travel bug.
She's blessed with excellent health.
We're blessed with five lovely grandchildren.
He was born to be a great composer.
It was gradually borne in on us that defeat was inevitable.
I'm not bothered about what he thinks.
'Where shall we eat?' 'I'm not bothered.' (= I don't mind where we go.)
communities bound together by customs and traditions
He's too bound up in his work to have much time for his children.
She was bursting to tell him the good news.
Her latest play is calculated to shock.
This sort of life is not calculated to appeal to a young man of 20.
The place was crawling with journalists.
Her hair was crawling with lice.
She curled up and closed her eyes.
She seems cursed with bad luck.
When I saw he had a gun, I thought it was curtains for me.
He's not cut out for teaching.
He's not cut out to be a teacher.
You'll be sorry you said that when I'm dead and gone.
The word 'politics' is derived from a Greek word meaning 'city'.
He claims to be descended from a Spanish prince.
She was devoured by envy and hatred.
Mother and baby are doing well.
Unless we start making some sales, we're done for.
When he pointed the gun at me, I thought I was done for (= about to die).
It's down to you to check the door.
She claimed her problems were down to the media.
I'm down to my last dollar.
I'm dying for a glass of water.
I'm dying to know what happened.
'Why don't you get yourself a job?' 'That's easier said than done.'
She was employed in making a list of all the jobs to be done.
She was endowed with intelligence and wit.
Ann's expecting a baby in June.
Be fair! She didn't know you were coming.
She was falling apart at the seams, spending most of her time in tears.
Many of these books are far removed from the reality of the children's lives.
Who's next for the chop?
The time's getting on—we ought to be going.
It must be getting on for midnight.
He's getting on for eighty.
The band's fans are getting younger.
Why do police officers seem to be getting younger?
He's given to going for long walks on his own.
He spends every evening glued to the TV.
Her eyes were glued to the screen (= she did not stop watching it).
Work is going great guns now.
It was going on (for) midnight.
a young architect who's really going places
We're going to buy a house when we've saved enough money.
I think I'm going to faint.
If the drought continues there's going to be a famine.
He thinks once he gets the money he'll be golden.
The cut in interest rates is good news for homeowners.
By tomorrow afternoon the document will be good to go.
I've spent several months training for this race so now I'm good to go.
Well, at least you weren't hurt. I suppose we should be grateful for small mercies.
If we try to keep it a secret, she's guaranteed to find out.
That kind of behaviour is guaranteed to make him angry.
It's certain that they will agree.
They are certain to agree.
There are bound to be changes when the new system is introduced.
You've done so much work—you're bound to pass the exam.
She's sure to be picked for the team.
It's sure to rain.
Is it definite that he's leaving?
She's gunning for the top job.
Don't be too hard on him—he's very young.
It's hard on people who don't have a car.
Looking at a computer screen all day can be very hard on the eyes.
He was hard put to it to explain her disappearance.
We're hard up for ideas.
They look as though they're heading for divorce.
It looks like televised trials are here to stay.
Another mistake like that and you're history.
We won't talk about that—that's history.
That's past history now.
He'll hole up now and move again tomorrow, after dark.
We believe the gang are holed up in the mountains.
I could see the finish line and thought I was home and dry.
The Church became increasingly identified with opposition to the regime.
Senior officials were implicated in the scandal.
I'm happy now. I'm in a good place.
They were in at the start.
Most of his jokes were in very poor taste.
Inside I'm in bits because I miss him so much.
All we need is a car and we'll be in business.
He's reached retiring age, but he's still firmly in control.
There has been some violence after the match, but the police are now in control of the situation.
In spite of all her family problems, she's really in control.
The success of the system is not in doubt.
We'd better hurry or we'll be in for it.
He's in for a shock!
I'm afraid we're in for a storm.
I'm in hock to the bank for £6 000.
He is said to be very much in the President's confidence.
All such posts are in the gift of the managing director (= only given by the managing director).
I'm in her good books at the moment because I cleared up the kitchen.
Could you move—you're in my light.
I wouldn't like to be in your shoes when they find out about it.
I promise I am in this for the long haul.
The employment secretary found himself in the firing line over recent job cuts.
I've always enjoyed music—it's in the genes.
The team are back in the hunt for the league title.
They were in the middle of dinner when I called.
I'm in the middle of writing a difficult letter.
The company has plunged $37 million into the red.
I was in two minds about the book (= I didn't know if I liked it or not).
She's in two minds about accepting his invitation.
'Do you think we'll win?' 'I think we're in with a chance.'
He's in with a good chance of passing the exam.
The critics went into raptures about her performance.
The last minute goal sent the fans into raptures.
She was in a real state about her exams.
What a state this place is in!
We won our match, so we're still in the frame for the championship.
He was always in the frame for the killing.
None of them could sing in tune.
The piano is out of tune.
These proposals are perfectly in tune with our own thoughts on the subject.
The President is out of tune with public opinion.
By the time he'd fixed the leak, I was into him for $500.
The bank was into her for $100 000.
He's into surfing in a big way.
'Can I help you?' 'I'm just looking, thank you.'
There was lots of food left over.
The contestants were level pegging after round 3.
We seem to be light on fuel.
This home of yours is like Fort Knox.
He is living proof that not all engineers are boring.
The government is looking to reduce inflation.
to be lost in thought
His jokes were completely lost on most of the students.
Scott's mad for peanuts.
He was not man enough to face up to his responsibility.
This restaurant is meant to be excellent.
'Do you mind if I use the phone?' 'Be my guest.'
We didn't want the press to get hold of the story, but it might be no bad thing.
This gadget isn't much good.
It's no good trying to talk me out of leaving.
Was his advice ever any good?
His latest film isn't much good.
It's no joke trying to find a job these days.
His mother was a painter, and he's no mean artist himself.
Bringing up a family when you're unemployed is no picnic.
She's no slouch on the guitar.
You can throw those away—they're no use to anyone.
He is no stranger to controversy.
She's nobody's fool when it comes to dealing with difficult patients.
I've read the instructions, but I'm still none the wiser.
If you put the money back, no one will be any the wiser.
The kids were none the worse for their adventure.
'I'm sorry, I called when you were in bed.' 'Don't worry—you weren't to know.'
I used to love her but she's nothing to me any more.
Can I be of service to anyone?
Can I be of any use (= can I help)?
How are we off for coffee (= how much do we have)?
No, you're way off the mark.
I was on a collision course with my boss over the sales figures.
A giant iceberg was on a collision course with the ship.
to have a healthy, balanced diet
the Japanese diet of rice, vegetables and fish
to receive advice on diet
a low-fat, salt-free diet
diet drinks (= with fewer calories than normal)
I decided to go on a diet (= to lose weight) before my holiday.
Children today are brought up on a diet of television cartoons and soap operas.
dietary advice/changes/habits
dietary fibre
She's always dieting but she never seems to lose any weight.
Don't stop me now—I'm on a roll!
I didn't know what he was on about. It didn't make sense.
Everyone agreed with me, so I knew I was on firm ground.
Is anyone on for a drink after work?
I had no idea that you and he were on such intimate terms (= were such close friends).
He is still on excellent terms with his ex-wife.
I'm on first-name terms with my boss now (= we call each other by our first names).
She's always on my case about cleaning my room.
I'm definitely on your side in this.
Whose side are you on anyway?
She's not been on speaking terms with her uncle for years.
Are they speaking to each other again yet?
We have two agents on the case.
I've been on the go all day.
Having four children keeps her on the go.
The public should be on the lookout for symptoms of the disease.
That estimate was right on the mark.
The car was already on the move.
The firm is on the move to larger offices.
He's been on the phone to Kate for more than an hour.
They're not on the phone at the holiday cottage.
He's on the telephone at the moment.
You're wanted (= sb wants to speak to you) on the telephone.
We're not on the telephone at the cottage.
Be on the watch for thieves.
Curtis is on track for the gold medal.
One needs space to be oneself.
She knew the police would be onto them.
They've been onto me for ages to get a job.
Scientists believe they are onto something big.
She's onto a good thing with that new job.
I'm not out for revenge.
She's out for what she can get (= trying to get something for herself).
The company is out to capture the Canadian market.
He felt totally out of his depth in his new job.
Starting early and working long hours is par for the course in this job.
The manager of the hotel was courtesy itself.
She was possessed of exceptional powers of concentration.
Italian football clubs are queuing up to sign the young star.
You can't fool him—he's always quick on the draw.
Is he always this slow on the uptake?
I'll give you £5 and then we're quits.
The game has been rained off again.
He is best remembered as the man who brought jazz to England.
She vowed to be revenged on them all.
She wanted to be rid of her parents and their authority.
I was glad to be rid of the car when I finally sold it.
(BrE) He was a nuisance and we're all well rid of him (= we'll be much better without him).
His body was riddled with cancer.
Her typing was slow and riddled with mistakes.
Don't ask me about it—that's her department.
She's four years his junior.
She's his junior by four years.
My children are my life.
Writing is his life.
If he wants to waste his money, that's his lookout.
For a superb haircut, David's your man.
'Patience' is my middle name!
I'm afraid geography is not my strong suit.
I hear he's shacked up with some woman.
Shorn of his power, the deposed king went into exile.
I was sick three times in the night.
She had been violently sick.
I'd love to come but I'm completely snowed under at the moment.
The tickets sold out within hours.
This week's performances are completely sold out.
I'm sorry, we've sold out of bread.
We are already sold out for what should be a fantastic game.
His shirt was spotted with oil.
The answer was staring us in the face.
Defeat was staring them in the face.
They were staring defeat in the face.
When's the food coming? I'm starving!
a city steeped in history
The team was still in the game, just one goal down.
I'm not very strong on dates (= I can't remember the dates of important events).
The report was strong on criticism, but short on practical suggestions.
I was struck by her youth and enthusiasm.
We're not very struck on that new restaurant.
She just sat there, sunk in thought.
You're supposed to buy a ticket, but not many people do.
I thought we were supposed to be paid today.
The engine doesn't sound like it's supposed to.
You were supposed to be here an hour ago!
How was I supposed to know you were waiting for me?
'Yes and no.' ' What is that supposed to mean?' (= showing that you are annoyed)
What time do we have to be home?
Are we supposed to show our ID cards?
Is it necessary to apply for a visa?
Is there a legal obligation to wear a bike helmet here?
I haven't seen it myself, but it's supposed to be a great movie.
Be sure to give your family my regards.
Be sure and call me tomorrow.
We were all very taken with his girlfriend.
I think he's quite taken with the idea.
I know that he has tried hard; be that as it may, his work is just not good enough.
Check out the new website. It's the bomb!
She was the butt of some very unkind jokes.
He thinks he's the cat's whiskers (= he has a high opinion of himself).
Those kids will be the death of me.
My handwriting was the despair of my teachers.
British television is the envy of the world.
He's the image of his father.
She's the spitting image of her mother.
You know I'll always be there for you.
The cafes were thronging with students.
The streets were thronged with people.
It's tickets for the team that loses.
If anyone's to blame, it's me.
Which driver was to blame for the accident?
One mistake and you're toast.
They were all togged up in their skiing gear.
It's too late to save her now.
Buy now before it's too late.
I was torn between my parents and my friend.
His hair was touched with grey.
a typical Italian cafe
This is a typical example of Roman pottery.
This meal is typical of local cookery.
The weather at the moment is not typical for July.
A typical working day for me begins at 7.30.
It was typical of her to forget.
He spoke with typical enthusiasm.
(informal) She's late again—typical!
Don't worry—everything's under control!
It's not up to you to tell me how to do my job.
Shall we eat out or stay in? It's up to you.
We're up to our ears in work.
They're up to their eyeballs in work.
He's in it (= trouble) up to his eyebrows.
We're up to our eyes in work.
We're up to our neck in debt.
He's in it (= trouble) up to his neck.
Ladies and gentlemen, please be upstanding and join me in a toast to the bride and groom.
a cotton vest
a bullet-proof vest
a running vest
Overall authority is vested in the Supreme Council.
The Supreme Council is vested with overall authority.
We're well off for jobs around here (= there are many available).
She is well on the way to recovery.
He is well on the way to establishing himself among the top ten players in the world.
He's well up in all the latest developments.
Engineering graduates are well placed for a wide range of jobs.
The company is ideally placed to take advantage of the new legislation.
The hotel is well placed for restaurants, bars and clubs.
Families will be better off under the new law (= will have more money).
They are both comfortably off (= have enough money to be able to buy what they want without worrying too much about the cost).
Are you with me?
I'm afraid I'm not quite with you.
We're all with you on this one.
He is a player without equal.
There was nothing to worry about. It was just her imagination working overtime.
Where have you been? I've been worried sick about you.
The increase in taxes means that we'll be £30 a month worse off than before.
Guilt was written all over his face.
Don't act sophisticated—just be yourself.
Don't belittle his achievements (= say they are not important).
An older girl befriended me.
heavily bejewelled fingers
bespattered with mud
The ship was becalmed (= there was no wind so it could not move).
The rebels besieged the fort.
She is always bemoaning her lot.
Unfortunately, the people making the decisions are out of touch with the real world.
The new working methods will come on line in June.
All the new homes are on line.
They came within a whisker of being killed.
Are you still in touch with your friends from college?
Thanks for showing us your products—we'll be in touch.
I'm trying to get in touch with Jane. Do you have her number?
Let's keep in touch.
I'll put you in touch with someone in your area.
It is important to keep in touch with the latest research.
She didn't seem quite herself this morning.
She needed space to be herself.
He didn't seem quite himself this morning.
He needed space to be himself.
It's not his fault he's so pompous—he was born that way.
The new computer system comes on stream next month.
The health minister has come under fire from all sides.
She works with us in Accounts, for her sins!
He was flattered by her attention.
I felt flattered at being asked to give a lecture.
She has every right to feel hard done by—her parents have given her nothing.
I was honoured to have been mentioned in his speech.
He decided to help Jan as he felt sorry for her.
I got carried away and started shouting at the television.
Innocent passers-by got caught up in the riots.
I got done for speeding on my way back.
I'll get even with you for this, just you wait.
I'd like to be in on the plan.
Is she in on the secret?
I'll be glad to get shot of this car.
He thought he could fool me but I got wise to him.
The children are completely out of control since their father left.
A truck ran out of control on the hill.
Don't ask me to speak French! I'm out of practice.
It really goes against the grain to have to work on a Sunday.
He didn't want to go on the record as either praising or criticizing the proposal.
(informal) You're lending them money? You must be out of your tiny mind!
Well, that's my holiday plans gone up the spout!
Stop keeping on about it!
He was on at me again to lend him money.
If you've done with that magazine, can I have a look at it?
Get out! It's nothing to do with you (= you have no right to know about it).
That has nothing to do with what we're discussing.
'What do you want to see me about?' 'It's to do with that letter you sent me.'
We've been friends for years.
They had a quarrel, but they're friends again now.
Simon finds it hard to make friends with other children.
If I may be so bold as to suggest that he made a mistake in his calculations…
I did it because he told me to.
Just because I don't complain, people think I'm satisfied.
There are two main reasons why I think it's the best option: first, there's the cost and second, the quality.
I think/believe it's the right thing to do because it gives everyone a fair chance.
I would choose the newer one on the grounds that it will last longer.
Of the three houses, the largest one seems to me to be the best, because they need the room.
My choice would be number 3, simply because it's the clearest design.
They are here because of us.
He walked slowly because of his bad leg.
Because of his wife('s) being there, I said nothing about it.
tourists sunbathing on the beach
a sandy/pebble/shingle beach
a beach bar
a town on the south coast of England
The coast road is closed due to bad weather.
That's a pretty stretch of coast.
She took the kids to the beach for the day.
sandy beaches
a trip to the seaside
a seaside resort
California's rugged coastline
We went for a walk along the sand.
a resort with miles of golden sands
He liked to look for shells on the seashore.
He beached the boat and lifted the boy onto the shore.
a beached whale (= one that has become stuck on land and cannot get back into the water)
beachfront hotels/apartments
a navigation beacon
(figurative) He was a beacon of hope for the younger generation.
a necklace of wooden beads
A bead curtain separated the two rooms.
There were beads of sweat on his forehead.
a beaded dress
His face was beaded with sweat.
(BrE) I shall certainly keep a beady eye on his behaviour.
The gull held the fish in its beak.
flat-beaked
a beaker of coffee
narrow beams of light/sunlight
the beam of a torch/flashlight
a laser/electron beam
(BrE) The car's headlights were on full beam (= shining as brightly as possible and not directed downwards).
(NAmE) a car with its high beams on
The cottage had exposed oak beams.
a beam of satisfaction
Your calculation is way off beam.
He beamed at the journalists.
She was positively beaming with pleasure.
The barman beamed a warm smile at her.
'I'd love to come,' she beamed (= said with a large smile).
Live pictures of the ceremony were beamed around the world.
The morning sun beamed down on us.
Light beamed through a hole in the curtain.
a high beamed ceiling
broad beans
runner beans
beans (= baked beans ) on toast
coffee/cocoa beans
I got beaned by a rock someone threw.
The pain was almost more than he could bear.
She couldn't bear the thought of losing him.
I can't bear having cats in the house.
He can't bear being laughed at.
He can't bear to be laughed at.
I can't bear you doing that.
He hates violence in any form.
I've always hated cabbage.
I don't like it when you phone me so late at night.
I can't stand his brother.
She couldn't stand being kept waiting.
He despised himself for being so cowardly.
They loathe each other.
Whether you love or loathe their music, you can't deny their talent.
They absolutely detest each other.
Her later work does not bear comparison with her earlier novels (= because it is not nearly as good).
The plan won't bear close inspection (= it will be found to be unacceptable when carefully examined).
The joke doesn't bear repeating (= because it is not funny or may offend people).
His sufferings don't bear thinking about (= because they are so terrible).
She bore the responsibility for most of the changes.
Do parents have to bear the whole cost of tuition fees?
You shouldn't have to bear the blame for other people's mistakes.
He bears no resentment towards them.
He's borne a grudge against me ever since that day.
He's borne me a grudge ever since that day.
She bore him no ill will.
The ice is too thin to bear your weight.
The document bore her signature.
He was badly wounded in the war and still bears the scars.
She bears little resemblance to (= is not much like) her mother.
The title of the essay bore little relation to (= was not much connected with) the contents.
a family that bore an ancient and honoured name
three kings bearing gifts
He bears himself (= stands, walks, etc.) proudly, like a soldier.
She bore herself with dignity throughout the funeral.
She was not able to bear children.
She had borne him six sons.
When you get to the fork in the road, bear right.
Taxation bears heavily on us all.
We must bring all our energies to bear upon the task.
Pressure was brought to bear on us to finish the work on time.
Schools will bear the brunt of cuts in government spending.
We all have our crosses to bear.
There's nothing we can do about it. We'll just have to grin and bear it.
Bear down on it with all your strength so it doesn't move.
These are matters that bear on the welfare of the community.
The other witnesses will bear me out.
The other witnesses will bear out what I say.
He's bearing up well under the strain of losing his job.
'How are you?' 'Bearing up.'
She's under a lot of strain. Just bear with her.
If you will bear with me (= be patient and listen to me) a little longer, I'll answer your question.
a black bear
She was the only thing that made life bearable.
He has decided to grow a beard and a moustache.
a week's growth of beard
a goat's beard
a bearded face/man
coffin bearers
I'm sorry to be the bearer of bad news.
A pass will allow the bearer to enter the building.
Recent events had no bearing on our decision.
Regular exercise has a direct bearing on fitness and health.
Her whole bearing was alert.
a bearish market
Japanese banks remain bearish.
a bearskin rug
wild/savage/ferocious beasts
mythical beasts such as unicorns and dragons
The maths exam was a real beast.
His new guitar is a very expensive beast.
bestial acts/cruelty/noises
He beat me at chess.
Their recent wins have proved they're still the ones to beat (= the most difficult team to beat).
The government's main aim is to beat inflation.
a problem that beats even the experts
It beats me (= I don't know) why he did it.
What beats me is how it was done so quickly (= I don't understand how).
Nothing beats home cooking.
You can't beat Italian shoes.
They want to beat the speed record (= go faster than anyone before).
If we go early we should beat the traffic.
We were up and off early to beat the heat.
Somebody was beating at the door.
Hailstones beat against the window.
Someone was beating a drum.
She was beating dust out of the carpet (= removing dust from the carpet by beating it).
At that time children were regularly beaten for quite minor offences (= a punishment).
An elderly man was found beaten to death.
They beat him unconscious (= hit him until he became unconscious).
She's alive—her heart is still beating.
We heard the drums beating.
The bird was beating its wings (= moving them up and down) frantically.
Beat the eggs up to a frothy consistency.
Beat the flour and milk together.
beaten silver
The gold is beaten out into thin strips.
The metal had been beaten flat.
a well-beaten track (= one that has been worn hard by much use)
The hunters beat a path through the undergrowth.
Stop beating about the bush and tell me what you want.
This is private land, so beat it!
Top theatrical agents are beating a path to the teenager's door.
She beat time with her fingers.
They live miles off the beaten track.
That score is going to take some beating.
For sheer luxury, this hotel takes some beating.
He was a dirty player and loved to kick hell out of the opposition.
He wanted $8 000 for the car but I beat him down to $6 000.
I beat down the price to $6 000.
The attacker was beaten off.
She beat off a challenge to her leadership.
We beat the flames out.
They can beat out the dent in the car's wing.
Her brother beat her out of $200.
She beat me to the top of the hill.
I was about to take the last cake, but he beat me to it.
He was badly beaten up by a gang of thugs.
Don't beat up on Paul, he tried his best.
Look, there's no need to beat yourself up over this.
several loud beats on the drum
(figurative) His heart missed a beat when he saw her.
the steady beat of the drums
This type of music has a strong beat to it.
The piece has four beats to the bar.
More police officers out on the beat may help to cut crime.
She was a gifted and original artist who marched to a different drummer.
a beat-up old truck
an amazing beatboxing performance
a carpet beater
an egg beater
a wife-beater
a beatific smile/expression
a beautiful woman/face/baby/voice/poem/smell/evening
beautiful countryside/weather/music
What beautiful timing!
to give sb a beating
The team has taken a few beatings this season.
He could hear the beating of his own heart.
the beating of drums/wings
As a place to live, Oxford takes some beating.
You can spend beaucoup bucks (= a lot of money) on software.
The storm measured 10 on the Beaufort scale.
unnecessary/excessive bureaucracy
the power of the state bureaucracy
living in a modern bureaucracy
the beauty of the sunset/of poetry/of his singing
a woman of great beauty
The woods were designated an area of outstanding natural beauty.
beauty products/treatment (= intended to make a person more beautiful)
She had been a beauty in her day.
That last goal was a beauty!
One of the beauties of living here is that it's so peaceful.
The project will require very little work to start up; that's the beauty of it.
She sings beautifully.
a beautifully decorated house
It's all working out beautifully.
He's been beavering away at the accounts all morning.
He beckoned to the waiter to bring the bill.
He beckoned her over with a wave.
The boss beckoned him into her office.
She beckoned him to come and join them.
The clear blue sea beckoned.
The prospect of a month without work was beckoning her.
For many kids leaving college the prospect of unemployment beckons.
It was becoming more and more difficult to live on his salary.
It soon became apparent that no one was going to come.
She was becoming confused.
She became queen in 1952.
The bill will become law next year.
Such behaviour did not become her.
Short hair really becomes you.
What became of that student who used to live with you?
I dread to think what will become of them if they lose their home.
It was not very becoming behaviour for a teacher.
a single/double bed
She lay on the bed (= on top of the covers).
He lay in bed (= under the covers).
I'm tired—I'm going to bed.
It's time for bed (= time to go to sleep).
I'll just put the kids to bed.
He likes to have a mug of cocoa before bed (= before going to bed).
to get into/out of bed
to make the bed (= arrange the covers in a tidy way)
Could you give me a bed for the night (= somewhere to sleep)?
There's a shortage of hospital beds (= not enough room for patients to be admitted).
He has been confined to bed with flu for the past couple of days.
the ocean bed
oyster beds (= an area in the sea where there are many oysters)
flower beds
grilled chicken, served on a bed of rice
The blocks should be laid on a bed of concrete.
What's he like in bed?
I caught them in bed together (= having sex).
It is quite common for small children to wet their beds.
The bricks were bedded in sand to improve drainage.
Make sure that you bed the roots firmly in the soil.
You have my room and I'll bed down in the living room.
(BrE) Sarah Wells BEd
Do you do bed and breakfast?
Bed and breakfast costs £50 a night.
There were several good bed and breakfasts in the area.
He was so bedazzled by her looks that he couldn't speak.
the royal bedchamber
Time for beddy-byes.
The expedition was bedevilled by bad weather.
strange/unlikely bedfellows
It was bedlam at our house on the morning of the wedding.
bedraggled hair/clothes
The poor suburbs traditionally formed the bedrock of the party's support.
Honesty is the bedrock of any healthy relationship.
the spare bedroom
a hotel with 20 bedrooms
This is the master bedroom (= the main bedroom of the house).
a three-bedroomed house
the bedroom scenes in the movie
His mother has been at his bedside throughout his illness.
a bedside lamp
It's way past your bedtime.
Will you read me a bedtime story?
a swarm of bees
a bee sting
Bees were buzzing in the clover.
a sewing bee
She thinks she's the bee's knees (= she has a very high opinion of herself).
forests planted with beech
beech hedges
The great beeches towered up towards the sky.
roast/minced beef
beef and dairy cattle
What's his latest beef?
beefy men/arms/thighs
The Irish Free State came into being in 1922.
A new era was brought into being by the war.
human beings
a strange being from another planet
I hated him with my whole being.
Not Spain again! Been there, done that, got the T-shirt.
The microwave beeps to let you know when it has finished.
The car behind started beeping at us.
He beeped his horn at the cyclist.
a barrel/bottle/glass of beer
beers brewed in Germany
a beer glass
Are you a beer drinker?
Shall we have a beer?
He must have been wearing beer goggles when he was flirting with that awful woman!
I last saw him beetling off down the road.
Q comes between P and R in the English alphabet.
I sat down between Jo and Diana.
Switzerland lies between France, Germany, Austria and Italy.
The paper had fallen down between the desk and the wall.
(figurative) My job is somewhere between a secretary and a personal assistant.
It's cheaper between 6 p.m. and 8 a.m.
Don't eat between meals.
Children must attend school between the ages of 5 and 16.
Many changes took place between the two world wars.
It weighed between nine and ten kilos.
The temperature remained between 25°C and 30°C all week.
the border between Sweden and Norway
We fly between Rome and Paris twice daily.
a difference/distinction/contrast between two things
a link between unemployment and crime
There's a lot of bad feeling between them.
I had to choose between the two jobs.
We ate a pizza between us.
This is just between you and me / between ourselves (= it is a secret).
We ought to be able to manage it between us.
Between working full-time and taking care of the kids, he didn't have much time for hobbies.
The house was near a park but there was a road in between.
I see her most weekends but not very often in between.
They were unaware of the fate that was to befall them.
It was a lavish reception as befitted a visitor of her status.
He lived in the style befitting a gentleman.
before lunch
the day before yesterday
The year before last he won a gold medal, and the year before that he won a silver.
She's lived there since before the war.
He arrived before me.
She became a lawyer as her father had before her.
Leave your keys at reception before departure.
Something ought to have been done before now.
We'll know before long (= soon).
Turn left just before (= before you reach) the bank.
They knelt before the throne.
Before you is a list of the points we have to discuss.
Your name is before mine on the list.
He puts his work before everything (= regards it as more important than anything else).
The task before us is a daunting one.
The whole summer lay before me.
He was brought before the judge.
She said it before witnesses.
They had the advantage of playing before their home crowd.
They retreated before the enemy.
Do it before you forget.
Did she leave a message before she went?
It may be many years before the situation improves.
It was some time before I realized the truth.
Put that away before it gets broken.
I'd die before I apologized!
You should have told me so before.
It had been fine the week before (= the previous week).
That had happened long before (= a long time earlier).
I think we've met before.
Her brain was befogged by lack of sleep.
'Were you taught by Professor Pascal?' 'No, he was before my time.'
She got old before her time.
We were whisked off in a taxi before we knew where we were.
He had seen his life's work destroyed before his very eyes.
two weeks/three days/a few hours beforehand
I wish we'd known about it beforehand.
Shortly after my arrival at the school, I was befriended by an older girl.
He was befuddled by drink.
He wants to see them beg for mercy.
They begged him for help.
She begged permission to leave.
I managed to beg a lift from a passing motorist.
'Give me one more chance,' he begged (her).
She begged him not to go.
He begged to be told the truth.
(formal) She begged that she be allowed to go.
(BrE also ) She begged that she should be allowed to go.
(formal) Don't leave me here, I beg of you!
London is full of homeless people begging in the streets.
a begging letter (= one that asks sb for money)
The children were begging for food.
We managed to beg a meal from the cafe owner.
All of which begs the question as to who will fund the project.
These assumptions beg the question that children learn languages more easily than adults.
I beg your pardon, I thought that was my coat.
'It's on Duke Street.' 'I beg your pardon.' 'Duke Street.'
'Just go away.' 'I beg your pardon!'
He's always begging off at the last minute.
Isaac begat Jacob.
Violence begets violence.
Aren't you dressed yet, you lazy beggar?
Why should I beggar myself for you?
It beggars belief how things could have got this bad.
She's in the beginners' class.
(figurative) He is taking round the begging bowl on behalf of the party's campaign fund.
We're going to Japan at the beginning of July.
She's been working there since the beginning of last summer.
We missed the beginning of the movie.
Let's start again from the beginning.
The birth of their first child marked the beginning of a new era in their married life.
I've read the whole book from beginning to end and still can't understand it.
at the beginning of the week/year/story/movie/game
In the beginning, we just tried to keep everything very simple. Later on, …
Did democracy have its beginnings in ancient Greece?
He built up his multimillion-pound music business from small beginnings.
Shall I begin?
Let's begin at page 9.
She began by thanking us all for coming.
We began work on the project in May.
I began (= started reading) this novel last month and I still haven't finished it.
He always begins his lessons with a warm-up exercise.
He began his political career as a student (= when he was a student).
I began to feel dizzy.
At last the guests began to arrive.
She began to cry.
It was beginning to snow.
I was beginning to think you'd never come.
Everyone began talking at once.
When will you begin recruiting?
When does the class start?
When does the concert begin?
The story begins on the island of Corfu.
The discussion started off mildly enough.
Tom will kick off with a few comments.
The festival kicks off on Monday, September 13.
The meeting is scheduled to commence at noon.
The story opens with a murder.
This study has the following aims: first, to investigate how international students in the UK use humour; second, to examine how jokes can help to establish social relationships; and, third, to explore the role that humour plays in helping overseas students adjust to life in the UK.
Let us begin by identifying some of the popular joke genres in the UK.
Next, let us turn to / Next, let us consider the question of gender differences in the use of humour.
Finally / Lastly, let us briefly examine the role of humour in defining a nation's culture.
When does the concert begin?
Work on the new bridge is due to begin in September.
The evening began well.
What time does the concert start/begin?
She started/began working here three months ago.
The story begins on the island of Corfu.
We'll need to start at 7.00.
Who do you think started the fire?
The car won't start.
I didn't start worrying/to worry until she was 2 hours late.
It's starting/beginning to rain.
He began as an actor, before starting to direct films.
What began as a minor scuffle turned into a full-scale riot.
Where does Europe end and Asia begin?
Use 'an' before words beginning with a vowel.
'I'm thinking of a country in Asia.' 'What does it begin with (= what is the first letter)?'
Each chapter begins with a quotation.
The path begins at Livingston village.
'Ladies and gentlemen,' he began, 'welcome to the Town Hall.'
The school began in 1920, with only ten pupils.
He began a new magazine on post-war architecture.
I can't begin to thank you enough.
He didn't even begin to understand my problem.
I found it tiring to begin with but I soon got used to it.
We'll go slowly to begin with.
'What was it you didn't like?' 'Well, to begin with, our room was far too small.'
You surely don't begrudge him his happiness.
I don't begrudge her being so successful.
I begrudge every second I spent trying to help him.
They begrudge paying so much money for a second-rate service.
She beguiled them into believing her version of events.
He was beguiled by her beauty.
beguiling advertisements
Her beauty was beguiling.
Begum Zia
We collected money in behalf of the homeless.
On behalf of the department I would like to thank you all.
Mr Knight cannot be here, so his wife will accept the prize on his behalf.
They campaigned on behalf of asylum seekers.
Don't worry on my behalf.
The doctor behaved very unprofessionally.
They behaved very badly towards their guests.
He behaved like a true gentleman.
She behaved with great dignity.
He behaved as if/though nothing had happened.
They behave differently when you're not around.
He behaved like nothing had happened.
Will you kids just behave!
She doesn't know how to behave in public.
I want you to behave yourselves while I'm away.
well-/badly behaved children
a study of how metals behave under pressure
good/bad behaviour
social/sexual/criminal behaviour
His behaviour towards her was becoming more and more aggressive.
the behaviour of dolphins/chromosomes
studying human and animal behaviour
(specialist) to study learned behaviours
children with behavioural difficulties
behavioural science (= the study of human behaviour)
a multinational corporate behemoth
Who's the girl standing behind Jan?
Stay close behind me.
a small street behind the station
She glanced behind her.
Don't forget to lock the door behind you (= when you leave).
The sun disappeared behind the clouds.
He's behind the rest of the class in reading.
We're behind schedule (= late).
She knew that, whatever she decided, her family was right behind her.
What's behind that happy smile (= what is causing it)?
He was the man behind the plan to build a new hospital.
The accident is behind you now, so try to forget it.
She has ten years' useful experience behind her.
She rode off down the road with the dog running behind.
The others are a long way behind.
He was shot from behind as he ran away.
I had fallen so far behind that it seemed pointless trying to catch up.
I was told to stay behind after school (= remain in school).
This bag was left behind after the class.
She's fallen behind with the payments.
He was terribly behind in his work.
The dog bit him on his behind.
The students were able to go behind the scenes to see how programmes are made.
A lot of negotiating has been going on behind the scenes.
behind-the-scenes work
They were behindhand in settling their debts.
Her face was a joy to behold.
They beheld a bright star shining in the sky.
She didn't like to be beholden to anyone.
It behoves us to study these findings carefully.
a belated birthday present
He wiped his hand across his mouth, then belched loudly.
He sat back and gave a loud belch.
The beleaguered party leader was forced to resign.
supplies for the beleaguered city
I don't believe you!
The man claimed to be a social worker and the old woman believed him.
Believe me, she's not right for you.
I believed his lies for years.
I find that hard to believe.
Don't believe a word of it (= don't believe any part of what sb is saying).
People used to believe (that) the earth was flat.
He refused to believe (that) his son was involved in drugs.
I do believe you're right (= I think sth is true, even though it is surprising).
'Where does she come from?' 'Spain, I believe.'
'Does he still work there?' 'I believe so/not.'
It is believed that the couple have left the country.
The vases are believed to be worth over $20 000 each.
Three sailors are missing, believed drowned.
The party believes (that) education is the most important issue facing the government.
She couldn't believe (that) it was all happening again.
I can't believe how much better I feel.
The god appears only to those who believe.
Believe it or not, he asked me to marry him!
You haven't heard the last of this, believe you me!
I don't believe it! What are you doing here?
I couldn't believe my eyes when she walked in.
And, would you believe, he didn't even apologize!
I was given to understand that she had resigned.
Do you believe in God?
I don't believe in hitting children.
Are you sure he was lying? I can't believe that of him.
I admire his passionate belief in what he is doing.
belief in God/democracy
She acted in the belief that she was doing good.
Contrary to popular belief (= in spite of what people may think), he was not responsible for the tragedy.
There is a general belief that things will soon get better.
religious/political beliefs
Dissatisfaction with the government has grown beyond belief.
icy air that was cold beyond belief
He never made a will, to the best of my knowledge.
Her energy and youthful good looks belie her 65 years.
Government claims that there is no poverty are belied by the number of homeless people on the streets.
Her explanation certainly sounded believable.
a play with believable characters
She felt her husband constantly belittled her achievements.
A peal of church bells rang out in the distance.
a bicycle bell
His voice came down the line as clear as a bell.
the bell of a trumpet (= the bell-shaped part at the end of it)
a bell-shaped flower
Ring the bell to see if they're in.
The bell's ringing!
The bell went for the end of the lesson.
An alarm bell went off.
(figurative) Warning bells started ringing in her head as she sensed that something was wrong.
His name rings a bell but I can't think where we met.
They crawled along on their bellies.
the belly of a ship
swollen-bellied
round-bellied
Stop shouting and listen!
'Run!' he shouted.
She yelled at the boy to get down from the wall.
She ran over to the window and cried for help.
He screamed at me to stop.
We all cheered as the team came onto the field.
'Quiet!' the teacher bellowed.
She never once raised her voice to us.
Last year the business went belly up after one of the partners resigned.
a belligerent attitude
the belligerent countries/states/nations
They bellowed at her to stop.
The coach bellowed instructions from the sidelines.
'Get over here!' he bellowed.
to let out a bellow of rage/pain
a pair of bellows (= a small bellows with two handles to be pushed together)
University campuses are often the bellwether of change.
I've got (a) bellyache.
to go bellyboarding
I've had a bellyful of your moaning.
Where do these plates belong (= where are they kept)?
Are you sure these documents belong together?
I don't feel as if I belong here.
to feel a sense of belonging
Who does this watch belong to?
The islands belong to Spain.
British actors did well at the award ceremony, but the evening belonged to the Americans.
Have you ever belonged to a political party?
Lions and tigers belong to the cat family.
insurance of property and personal belongings
She packed her few belongings in a bag and left.
Shall I help you pack your things?
Bring your swimming things.
Where's all my stuff?
This building is government property.
Be careful not to damage other people's property.
Prisoners were allowed no personal possessions except letters and photographs.
I've cleared out all that old junk from the attic.
Please make sure you have all your belongings with you when leaving the plane.
He was found guilty of handling stolen goods.
Never leave cash or other valuables lying around.
the deep purple flowers so beloved by artists
in memory of our dearly beloved son, John
It was a gift from her beloved.
He dived below the surface of the water.
Please do not write below this line.
Skirts will be worn below (= long enough to cover) the knee.
The temperatures remained below freezing all day.
Her work was well below average for the class.
A police sergeant is below an inspector.
They live on the floor below.
I could still see the airport buildings far below.
See below (= at the bottom of the page) for references.
The passengers who felt seasick stayed below (= on a lower deck).
The thermometer had dropped to a record 40 below (= −40 degrees).
This ruling applies to the ranks of Inspector and below.
That was distinctly below the belt!
below-the-fold links
That story would have been better in a less prominent, below-the-fold position.
Teaching in some subjects has been well below par.
Experts say a lot of corporate crime stays under the radar.
to do up/fasten/tighten a belt
a belt buckle
the country's corn/industrial belt
We live in the commuter belt.
a belt of rain moving across the country
She gave the ball a terrific belt.
a belt-and-braces policy
She already has a couple of good wins under her belt.
I'm saving for a new car.
If we budget carefully we'll be able to afford the trip.
With the price increases, we are all having to tighten our belts.
He belted the ball right out of the park.
I'll belt you if you do that again.
A truck came belting up behind us.
The dress was belted at the waist.
Just belt up, will you!
a belted jacket
They sat bemoaning the fact that no one would give them a chance.
a bemused expression/smile
a park bench
His lawyer turned to address the bench.
She has recently been appointed to the bench.
There was cheering from the Opposition benches.
the substitutes' bench
a carpenter's bench
Tests at the age of seven provide a benchmark against which the child's progress at school can be measured.
Projects are assessed and benchmarked against the targets.
He bent and kissed her.
fields of poppies bending in the wind
His dark head bent over her.
She bent forward to pick up the newspaper.
Slowly bend from the waist and bring your head down to your knees.
He bent his head and kissed her.
She was bent over her desk writing a letter.
Bend your knees, keeping your back straight.
Lie flat and let your knees bend.
Mark the pipe where you want to bend it.
The knives were bent out of shape.
He bent the wire into the shape of a square.
The road bent sharply to the right.
Glass and water both bend light.
He manipulates people and tries to bend them to his will (= make them do what he wants).
a sharp bend in the road
She's gone completely round the bend.
The kids have been driving me round the bend today (= annoying me very much).
to go on a bender
a bendy road
They found the body buried beneath a pile of leaves.
The boat sank beneath the waves.
He considers such jobs beneath him.
They thought she had married beneath her (= married a man of lower social status).
Her careful make-up hid the signs of age beneath.
a Benedictine monastery
A good diet is beneficial to health.
Who will be the main beneficiary of the cuts in income tax?
I've had the benefit of a good education.
The new regulations will be of benefit to everyone concerned.
It will be to your benefit to arrive early.
He couldn't see the benefit of arguing any longer.
the benefits of modern medicine
It was good to see her finally reaping the benefits (= enjoying the results) of all her hard work.
The aim is to help people who are on benefits (= receiving benefits) to find jobs.
You may be eligible to receive benefits.
The number of people claiming unemployment benefit fell last month.
Private health insurance is offered as part of the employees' benefits package.
The insurance plan will provide substantial cash benefits to your family in case of your death.
a benefit match/concert
I have typed out some lecture notes for the benefit of those people who were absent last week.
Don't go to any trouble for my benefit!
We should spend the money on something that will benefit everyone.
Who exactly stands to benefit from these changes?
a benevolent smile/attitude
belief in the existence of a benevolent god
the RAF Benevolent Fund
environmentally benign cleaning products
He smiled benignly.
a piece of bent wire
Do this exercise with your knees bent (= not with your legs straight).
a small bent old woman
He was bent double with laughter.
She seems bent on making life difficult for me.
Don't get bent out of shape about it. It was just a mistake!
She has a bent for mathematics.
bentwood chairs
He bequeathed his entire estate (= all his money and property) to his daughter.
He bequeathed his daughter his entire estate.
He left a bequest to each of his grandchildren.
an employment bureau
the Federal Bureau of Investigation
The ceremony was an ordeal for those who had been recently bereaved.
recently bereaved families
an organization offering counselling for the bereaved
the pain of an emotional crisis such as divorce or bereavement
A family bereavement meant that he could not attend the conference.
bereft of ideas/hope
He was utterly bereft when his wife died.
a pair of Bermudas
This area of town is known as the Bermuda Triangle because drinkers can disappear into the pubs and clubs and be lost to the world.
Birds feed on nuts and berries in the winter.
blackberries/raspberries
He went berserk when he found out where I'd been.
People were going berserk with excitement.
He gave the dog a wide berth.
The ship is berthed at Southampton.
Let him go, I beseech you!
Paris was besieged for four months and forced to surrender.
(figurative) Fans besieged the box office to try and get tickets for the concert.
The actress was besieged by reporters at the airport.
The radio station was besieged with calls from angry listeners.
The team was beset by injury all season.
It's one of the most difficult problems besetting our modern way of life.
He sat beside her all night.
a mill beside a stream
My painting looks childish beside yours.
He was beside himself with rage when I told him what I had done.
We have lots of things in common besides music.
Besides working as a doctor, he also writes novels in his spare time.
I've got no family besides my parents.
What other sports do you like besides football?
I like all sports except football.
What other sports do you like apart from football?
I like all sports apart from football.
I don't really want to go. Besides, it's too late now.
discounts on televisions, stereos and much more besides
He is completely besotted with his new girlfriend.
His style of dressing bespoke great self-confidence.
bespoke software
a bespoke suit
a bespoke tailor
That's the best movie I've ever seen!
She was one of the best tennis players of her generation.
Is that your best suit?
They've been best friends (= closest friends) since they were children.
the company's best-ever results
We want the kids to have the best possible education.
Those were the best years of my life.
What's the best way to cook steak?
The best thing to do would be to apologize.
He's the best man for the job.
It's best if you go now.
I'm not in the best position to advise you.
Which one do you like best?
Well-drained soil suits the plant best.
her best-known poem
He works best in the mornings.
Britain's best-dressed woman
The beaches are beautiful, but, best of all, there are very few tourists.
Painting is best done in daylight.
Do as you think best (= what you think is the most suitable thing to do).
We all want the best for our children.
They only buy the best.
They're all good players, but she's the best of all.
We're the best of friends (= very close friends).
She always brings out the best in people.
The town looks its best (= is most attractive) in the spring.
Don't worry about the exam—just do your best.
The roses are past their best now.
I don't really feel at my best today.
Fifty pounds is the best I can offer you.
The best we can hope for in the game is a draw.
a lifetime best of 12.0 seconds
We make sure our clients get the best that money can buy.
I just don't know what to do for the best.
I'm sorry if my advice offended you—I meant it for the best.
I thought you had the best of that discussion.
He'll be out there, dancing with the best of them.
The best of luck with your exams.
Good luck! I hope it goes well.
the bestseller list
a bestselling novel/author
It was fun hanging out with my bestie.
Hank is besties with Sarah.
It was a title bestowed upon him by the king.
He bestrode his horse.
besuited businessmen
You have to be over 16 to bet.
I wouldn't bet on them winning the next election.
He bet $2 000 on the final score of the game.
She bet me £20 that I wouldn't do it.
I bet (that) we're too late.
You can bet (that) the moment I sit down, the phone will ring.
I'll bet you (that) he knows all about it.
'I nearly died when he told me.' 'I bet!'
'I'm going to tell her what I think of her.' 'Yeah, I bet!'
'She'll soon get used to the idea.' 'I wouldn't bet on it.'
'Are you nervous?' 'You bet!'
You can bet your bottom dollar that he'll be late.
The company bet the farm on the new marketing model, only to find that it wasn't successful.
to win/lose a bet
We've got a bet on who's going to arrive first.
He had a bet on the horses.
They all put a bet on the race.
I hear you're taking bets on whether she'll marry him.
I did it for a bet (= because sb had agreed to pay me money if I did).
'Liverpool are bound to win.' ' Do you want a bet? ' (= I disagree with you, I don't think they will.)
My bet is that they've been held up in traffic.
If you want to get around London fast, the Underground is your best bet.
He betook himself to his room.
Woe betide anyone who gets in her way!
a clear blue sky betokening a fine day
He was offered money to betray his colleagues.
For years they had been betraying state secrets to Russia.
She felt betrayed when she found out the truth about him.
She betrayed his trust over and over again.
I have never known her to betray a confidence (= tell other people sth that should be kept secret).
She is accused of attempting to cheat the taxman.
He cheated his way into the job.
You're not allowed to look at the answers— that's cheating.
Just don't be fooled into investing any money with them.
She deceived him into handing over all his savings.
I was taken in by her story.
They had been conned out of £100 000.
He has been accused of betraying his former socialist ideals.
His voice betrayed the worry he was trying to hide.
She was terrified of saying something that would make her betray herself (= show her feelings or who she was).
a sense/a feeling/an act of betrayal
I saw her actions as a betrayal of my trust.
the many disappointments and betrayals in his life
We're hoping for better weather tomorrow.
Her work is getting better and better.
He is in a much better mood than usual.
The meal couldn't have been better.
There's nothing better than a long soak in a hot bath.
If you can only exercise once a week, that's better than nothing (= better than taking no exercise at all).
She's far better at science than her brother.
Can you think of a better word than 'nice'?
It would be better for him to talk to his parents about his problems.
You'd be better going by bus.
She's a lot better today.
His leg was getting better.
You'll feel all the better for a good night's sleep.
Don't go back to work until you are better.
The path was no better than a sheep track.
Dry your eyes now. That's better.
That's much better—you played the right notes this time.
I love giving parties, the bigger the better.
The journey took her the better part of an hour.
She sings much better than I do.
Sound travels better in water than in air.
People are better educated now.
You'll like her when you know her better.
A cup of tea? There's nothing I'd like better!
Fit people are better able to cope with stress.
The money could be better spent on more urgent cases.
Some things are better left unsaid.
You'd do better to tell her everything before she finds out from someone else.
You'd better go to the doctor about your cough.
We'd better leave now or we'll miss the bus.
You'd better not do that again.
'I'll give you back the money tomorrow.' 'You'd better!' (= as a threat)
If you think it is going to be easy, you'd best think again.
You should take the baby to the doctor's.
I ought to give up smoking.
Should we call the doctor?
We'd better hurry or we'll miss the train.
She should have asked for some help.
You ought to have been more careful.
You shouldn't drive so fast.
I'm sorry, I shouldn't have lost my temper.
the better of the two books
I expected better of him (= I thought he would have behaved better).
No one can get the better of her in an argument.
She always gets the better of an argument.
His curiosity got the better of him (= he didn't intend to ask questions, but he wanted to know so badly that he did).
We don't actually need it on Tuesday, but if it arrives by then, so much the better.
She has behaved appallingly—I must say I thought better of her.
The work he produced early in his career has never really been bettered.
Thousands of Victorian workers joined educational associations in an attempt to better themselves.
illegal betting
What's the betting that he gets his own way?
The betting is that he'll get his own way.
laws governing the sale of alcoholic beverages
a bevy of beauties (= beautiful young women)
We went out for a few bevvies last night.
Motorists have been warned to beware of icy roads.
Beware of saying anything that might reveal where you live.
It's a great place for swimming, but beware dangerous currents.
She was totally bewildered by his sudden change of mood.
He turned around, with a bewildered look on his face.
a bewildering array/range
There is a bewildering variety of software available.
All the houses looked bewilderingly similar.
to look/stare in bewilderment
He was completely bewitched by her beauty.
a bewitching girl/smile
a bewitching performance
The road continues beyond the village up into the hills.
It won't go on beyond midnight.
I know what I'll be doing for the next three weeks but I haven't thought beyond that.
Our success was far beyond what we thought possible.
She's got nothing beyond her state pension.
The bicycle was beyond repair (= is too badly damaged to repair).
The situation is beyond our control.
The handle was just beyond my reach.
The exercise was beyond the abilities of most of the class.
Snowdon and the mountains beyond were covered in snow.
The immediate future is clear, but it's hard to tell what lies beyond.
the year 2016 and beyond
This meeting has been, without doubt, one of the most useful we have had so far.
The research showed beyond doubt that smoking contributes to heart disease.
(law 法律) The prosecution was able to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the woman had been lying.
He irritated me beyond measure.
His remarks were clearly beyond the pale.
A successful outcome is not beyond the realms of possibility.
She's my bezzie pal.
I'm going to my BFF's birthday party next week.
'May Bhagwan bless you,' he said.
Bhagwan Rajneesh
Suresh Bhai
Gandhi Bhai
bilingual
bicentenary
accusations of political bias in news programmes (= that reports are unfair and show favour to one political party)
Employers must consider all candidates impartially and without bias.
Some institutions still have a strong bias against women.
The course has a strong practical bias.
If a response rate is low, the risk of bias in the findings will be greater.
The skirt is cut on the bias.
The newspapers have biased people against her.
The experiment contained an error which could bias the results.
biased information/sources/press reports
a biased jury/witness
a school biased towards music and art
the stamp-collector's bible
biblical scholarship/times/scenes
biblical stories/passages
a thunderstorm of biblical proportions
He had known her—but not in the biblical sense.
bibliophile
bicentenary celebrations
bicentennial celebrations
The children are always bickering about something or other.
He got on his bicycle and rode off.
We went for a bicycle ride on Sunday.
I bid £2 000 for the painting.
We wanted to buy the chairs but another couple were bidding against us.
A French firm will be bidding for the contract.
The team is bidding to retain its place in the league.
She bid four hearts.
What am I bid for this vase?
Granada mounted a hostile takeover bid for Forte.
At the auction (= a public sale where things are sold to the person who offers the most), the highest bid for the picture was £200.
Any more bids?
The company submitted a bid for the contract to clean the hospital.
a bid for power
a desperate bid to escape from his attackers
I bade farewell to all the friends I had made in Paris.
I bade all my friends farewell.
He bade me come closer.
It went to the highest bidder (= the person who offered the most money).
There were six bidders for the catering contract.
There was fast bidding between private collectors and dealers.
Several companies remained in the bidding.
competitive bidding for the contract
to do sb's bidding (= to obey sb)
a biennial convention
He biffed me on the nose.
a big man/house/increase
This shirt isn't big enough.
It's the world's biggest computer company.
(informal) He had this great big grin on his face.
They were earning big money.
The news came as a big blow.
a large amount of
a large number of
a large quantity of
a great deal of
in great detail
a person of great age
my big brother
You're a big girl now.
a big decision
Tonight is the biggest match of his career.
You are making a big mistake.
She took the stage for her big moment.
(informal) Do you really think we can take on the big boys (= compete with the most powerful people)?
They're full of big ideas.
Orange is the big colour this year.
The band's very big in Japan.
I'm a big fan of hers.
a big eater/drinker/spender
He gave me an extra five pounds for two hours' work. I thought 'That's big of you'.
So he earns more than me. Big deal!
Right now forget the details and take a look at the big picture.
The authorities used quiet persuasion instead of the big stick.
She works for one of the Big Six.
Ladies and gentlemen, let's give a big hand to our special guests tonight.
If I don't win it's no big deal.
The new delivery service has taken off in a big way.
Many people are investing in a small way in the stock market.
We need to think big.
This story went over big with my kids.
He's hoping to make it big on TV.
The band has hit big in the US.
He's been bigging up the CD on his radio show.
the big-band sound
When a big-box store opens, smaller retailers often go out of business.
Efforts were made to limit big-box expansion.
links between politics and big business
Health and fitness have become big business.
Customer intelligence is created from big data analysis, so customers benefit from more personalized experiences.
They've appointed one of the industry's big hitters to the board.
Over the past year, the company has joined the big league.
The movie hits the big screen in July.
her first big-screen success
The movement soon became a big tent under which many campaign groups gathered.
a bit-part actor who finally made/hit the big time
This time they've messed up big time!
big-ticket items
a bigamous relationship
the Great Australian Bight
a religious/racial bigot
software bigs
the Internet travel bigs
She had to entertain some boring local bigwigs.
The house was terribly small and cramped, but the agent described it as a bijou residence.
She got on her bike and rode off.
I usually go to work by bike.
My dad bikes to work every day.
I'll bike the contract over to you this afternoon.
The activities on offer include sailing and mountain biking.
bilateral relations/agreements/trade/talks
The critic's review of the play was just a paragraph of bile.
She is bilingual in English and Punjabi.
bilingual education/communities
a bilingual dictionary
Welsh/English bilinguals
a bilious green dress
a conman who bilked investors out of millions of dollars
the telephone/electricity/gas bill
We ran up a massive hotel bill.
She always pays her bills on time.
The bills are piling up (= there are more and more that have still not been paid).
Let's ask for the bill.
a ten-dollar bill
to introduce/approve/reject a bill
the Education Reform Bill
a horror double bill (= two horror films/movies shown one after the other)
Topping the bill (= the most important performer) is Paul Simon.
long-billed waders
On paper, several of the applicants fit the bill.
Once again it will be the taxpayer who has to foot the bill.
Please bill me for the books.
He was billed as the new Tom Cruise.
She was billed to speak on 'China—Yesterday and Today'.
a game of billiards
a billiard cue
to have top/star billing
billings around $7 million
Worldwide sales reached 2.5 billion.
half a billion dollars
They have spent billions on the problem (= billions of dollars, etc.).
Two billion (people) worldwide are expected to watch the game.
Two billion (dollars) was withdrawn from the account.
Our immune systems are killing billions of germs right now.
The curtains billowed in the breeze.
A great cloud of smoke billowed out of the chimney.
We spent the morning bimbling around the market.
I bimbled into town.
We were enjoying a pleasant bimble in the country.
He's going out with an empty-headed bimbo half his age.
a rubbish bin
a bread bin
Do you need to keep these letters or shall we bin them?
the binary system
binary arithmetic
binary code/numbers
The computer performs calculations in binary and converts the results to decimal.
She was bound to a chair.
They bound his hands together.
He was left bound and gagged (= tied up and with a piece of cloth tied over his mouth).
She bound up his wounds.
Organizations such as schools and clubs bind a community together.
She thought that having his child would bind him to her forever.
He had been bound to secrecy (= made to promise not to tell people about sth).
The agreement binds her to repay the debt within six months.
Add an egg yolk to make the mixture bind.
Add an egg yolk to bind the mixture together.
two volumes bound in leather
The blankets were bound with satin.
He was bound over for trial.
She was bound over to keep the peace for a year.
a bindaas girl
a bindaas attitude
There are bound to be changes when the new system is introduced.
It's bound to be sunny again tomorrow.
You've done so much work—you're bound to pass the exam.
It was bound to happen sooner or later (= we should have expected it).
You're bound to be nervous the first time (= it's easy to understand).
We are not bound by the decision.
You are bound by the contract to pay before the end of the month.
(formal) I am bound to say I disagree with you on this point.
Strike-bound travellers face long delays.
fogbound airports
homeward bound (= going home)
Paris-bound
northbound/southbound/eastbound/westbound
a plane bound for Dublin
From that moment my life became inextricably bound up with hers.
The dogs bounded ahead.
The field was bounded on the left by a wood.
Her health has improved in leaps and bounds.
a ring binder
a binding promise/agreement/contract
to go on a binge
binge drinking
One of the symptoms is binge eating.
When she's depressed she binges on chocolate.
to play bingo
a bingo hall
The computer program searches, and bingo! We've got a match.
binocular vision
a pair of binoculars
We looked at the birds through binoculars.
a posh bint
biodegradable
I need to take a biobreak.
The plant crops will be used for sustainable bioenergy.
biofuels made from sugar cane and sugar beet
Boswell's biography of Johnson
the biological sciences
the biological effects of radiation
the biological control of pests (= using living organisms to destroy them, not chemicals)
a child's biological parents (= natural parents, not the people who adopted him/her)
biological and non-biological powders
(figurative) At 35, Kate's biological clock was ticking (= she was beginning to think that she would soon be too old to have children).
a degree in biology
How far is human nature determined by biology?
the biology of marine animals
biomass crops
biotechnological research
a bipartisan policy
a bird's nest with two eggs in it
a species of bird
The area has a wealth of bird life.
a wise old bird
She is that rare bird: a politician with a social conscience.
Ten new cases of bird flu were reported yesterday.
The baby weighed three kilos at birth.
John was present at the birth of both his children.
It was a difficult birth.
a hospital/home birth
Mark has been blind from birth.
Please state your date and place of birth.
the birth of a new society in South Africa
Anne was French by birth but lived most of her life in Italy.
a woman of noble birth
She died shortly after giving birth.
Mary gave birth to a healthy baby girl.
(figurative) It was the study of history that gave birth to the social sciences.
a reliable method of birth control
a low/high birth rate
Happy Birthday!
Oliver's 13th birthday
a birthday card/party/present
a birthing pool
Hawaii was the birthplace of surfing.
The property is the birthright of the eldest child.
Education is every child's birthright.
chicken biryani
a packet of chocolate biscuits
a selection of cheese biscuits
You've done some stupid things before, but this really takes the biscuit!
the Bishop of Oxford
Bishop Pritchard
a herd of bison
lobster bisque
These trousers are a bit tight.
'Are you tired?' 'Yes, I am a bit.'
It costs a bit more than I wanted to spend.
I can lend you fifty pounds, if you want. That should help a bit.
These shoes are a bit tight.
I'll be a bit later home tomorrow.
Can you turn the volume up a bit?
These shoes are a little bit too tight.
I'll be a little later home tomorrow.
Can you turn the volume up a little bit?
Wait a bit!
Can you move up a bit?
Greg thought for a bit before answering.
some useful bits of information
With a bit of luck, we'll be there by 12.
I've got a bit of shopping to do.
a bit of cake
bits of grass/paper
The best bit of the holiday was seeing the Grand Canyon.
The school play was a huge success—the audience roared with laughter at all the funny bits.
'How much does he earn?' 'Quite a bit!'
The new system will take a bit of getting used to (= it will take a long time to get used to).
She couldn't accept the whole drug-culture bit.
He assembled the model aircraft bit by bit.
Bit by bit memories of the night came back to me.
She stuffed all her bits and pieces into a bag and left.
We can finish this job on time if everyone does their bit.
Rome is every bit as beautiful as Paris.
'Are you cold?' 'Not a bit.'
It's not a bit of use (= there's no point in) complaining.
I don't like that idea one bit.
You'd think she'd be tired after the journey but not a bit of it!
The book fell to bits in my hands.
She took the engine to bits, then carefully put it together again.
I love my kids to bits.
She was thrilled to bits when I said I'd come.
He didn't take a blind bit of notice of me (= he ignored me).
It won't make the blindest bit of difference (= it will make no difference at all).
a greyhound bitch
You stupid little bitch!
She can be a real bitch.
Life's a bitch.
We've been having a bitch about our boss.
bitchy remarks
Does your dog bite?
Come here! I won't bite!(= you don't need to be afraid)
She bit into a ripe juicy pear.
She was bitten by the family dog.
Stop biting your nails!
He bit off a large chunk of bread./He bit a large chunk of bread off.
Most European spiders don't bite.
We were badly bitten by mosquitoes.
The recession is beginning to bite.
Thousands of small businesses bite the dust every year.
I didn't believe her explanation but I bit my tongue.
She bit back her anger.
The horses' hooves bit deep into the soft earth.
The dog gave me a playful bite.
He has to wear a brace to correct his bite.
She took a couple of bites of the sandwich.
He didn't eat a bite of his dinner (= he ate nothing).
How about a bite of lunch?
We just have time for a bite to eat before the movie.
Dog bites can get infected.
a mosquito/snake bite
Cheese will add extra bite to any pasta dish.
There's a bite in the air tonight.
The performance had no bite to it.
Cut the meat into bite-sized pieces.
The exams are taken in bite-size chunks over two years.
biting sarcasm/wit
a long and bitter dispute
She is very bitter about losing her job.
to weep/shed bitter tears
Losing the match was a bitter disappointment for the team.
I've learnt from bitter experience not to trust what he says.
Black coffee leaves a bitter taste in the mouth.
bitter cold
a bitter wind
It's really bitter out today.
The pay cut caused bitterness among the staff.
The flowers of the hop plant add bitterness to the beer.
They were prepared to fight to the bitter end for their rights.
A pint of bitter, please.
gin with a dash of bitters
She wept bitterly.
They complained bitterly.
The development was bitterly opposed by the local community.
bitterly disappointed/ashamed
bittersweet memories
a kilometre and a half of bitumen
tall/old/historic buildings
We have a buyer who would like to view the property.
The price of property has risen enormously.
The company is looking for larger premises.
a leisure complex
The pier is a wooden structure.
a block of flats
the school's science block
the building of the school
There's building work going on next door.
the building trade
building materials/costs/regulations
people in the music biz
a bizarre situation/incident/story
bizarre behaviour
bizarrely dressed
Someone must have blabbed to the police.
What was she blabbering on about this time?
a shiny black car
black storm clouds
a black night
a black woman writer
black culture
Two black coffees, please.
chimneys black with smoke
Go and wash your hands; they're absolutely black!
She's been in a really black mood all day.
Rory shot her a black look.
The future looks pretty black.
It's been another black day for the north-east with the announcement of further job losses.
black deeds/lies
'Good place to bury the bodies,' she joked with black humour.
The play is a black comedy.
She peered out into the blackness of the night.
He's not very friendly, but he's not as black as he's painted.
the black of the night sky
Everyone at the funeral was dressed in black.
a film made in black and white
black-and-white photos
I never thought they'd put it in black and white on the front page.
The unions have blacked all imports from the country.
The driver had probably blacked out at the wheel.
A power failure blacked out the city last night.
a house with blacked out windows
Some lines of the document have been blacked out for security reasons.
a queue of black cabs at the station
a black diamond run
(figurative) The company viewed the venture as a financial black hole (= it would use a lot of the company's money with no real result).
She earned a black mark for opposing company policy.
The public scandal was a black mark against him.
to buy or sell goods on the black market
a flourishing black market in foreign currency
salt and freshly ground black pepper
the black sheep of the family
an environmental black spot
That corner is a notorious accident black spot (= a lot of accidents happen there).
The party is black tie (= dinner jackets should be worn).
a black-tie dinner
blackberry and apple pie
Check your emails via your BlackBerry.
Shall we go blackberrying?
to write on the blackboard
blackcurrant jam
a blackcurrant bush
Their faces were blackened with soot.
Smoke had blackened the walls.
He accused the newspaper of trying to blacken his name.
She was blacklisted by all the major Hollywood studios because of her political views.
The movie takes a blackly humorous look at death.
emotional/moral blackmail
She blackmailed him for years by threatening to tell the newspapers about their affair.
The President said he wouldn't be blackmailed into agreeing to the terrorists' demands.
She had a blackout and couldn't remember anything about the accident.
the blades of a propeller
rotor blades on a helicopter
I blagged some tickets for the game.
We blagged our way into the reception by saying that we were from the press.
They said, 'Come in, sit down, blah, blah, blah, sign here'.
The movie was pretty blah.
She doesn't blame anyone for her father's death.
A dropped cigarette is being blamed for the fire.
Police are blaming the accident on dangerous driving.
Call her if you like, but don't blame me if she's angry.
'I just slammed the phone down when he said that.' 'I don't blame you!'
If you lose your job, you'll only have yourself to blame.
to lay/put the blame for sth on sb
The government will have to take the blame for the riots.
Why do I always get the blame for everything that goes wrong?
to lead a blameless life
None of us is entirely blameless in this matter.
bland background music
a rather bland diet of soup, fish and bread
a bland smile
After the meeting, a bland statement was issued.
Sign your name in the blank space below.
a blank CD
Write on one side of the paper and leave the other side blank.
She turned to a blank page in her notebook.
blank whitewashed walls
Suddenly the screen went blank.
She stared at me with a blank expression on her face.
Steve looked blank and said he had no idea what I was talking about.
Suddenly my mind went blank (= I could not remember anything).
a blank refusal/denial
She stared blankly into space, not knowing what to say next.
Please fill in the blanks.
If you can't answer the question, leave a blank.
My mind was a blank and I couldn't remember her name.
The troops fired blanks in the air.
So far, the police investigation has drawn a blank.
I saw her on the bus this morning, but she totally blanked me.
I knew the answer, but I totally blanked during the test.
The screen blanked out.
All the names in the letter had been blanked out.
She had tried to blank out the whole experience.
The President was given a blank check by Congress to continue the war.
a blanket of fog/snow/cloud
(figurative) The trial was conducted under a blanket of secrecy.
a blanket ban on tobacco advertising
a blanket refusal
The ground was soon blanketed with snow.
police cars with lights flashing and sirens blaring
Music blared out from the open window.
The radio was blaring (out) rock music.
the blare of car horns
Many people found the film blasphemous.
a bomb blast
27 schoolchildren were injured in the blast.
A blast of hot air hit us as we stepped off the plane.
the wind's icy blasts
three short blasts on the ship's siren
Blast for prison governors in judge's report.
The party was a blast.
We had a blast at the party.
They blasted a huge crater in the runway.
They had to blast a tunnel through the mountain.
All the windows were blasted inwards with the force of the explosion.
The jumbo jet was blasted out of the sky.
Danger! Blasting in Progress!
Music suddenly blasted out from the speakers.
The radio blasted out rock music at full volume.
The movie was blasted by all the critics.
He blasted the ball past the goalie.
He blasted (= shot) the policeman right between the eyes.
Police blasted the demonstrators with water cannons.
Their whole crop had been blasted by a late frost.
Oh blast! The car won't start.
Make your own blasted coffee!
a blatant attempt to buy votes
It was a blatant lie.
a blatantly unfair decision
He just blatantly lied about it.
A huge fire was blazing in the fireplace.
Within minutes the whole building was blazing.
He rushed back into the blazing house.
The sun blazed down from a clear blue sky.
The garden blazed with colour.
Her eyes were blazing with fury.
The story was blazed all over the daily papers.
In the distance machine guns were blazing.
The department is blazing a trail in the field of laser surgery.
Five people died in the blaze.
Dry wood makes a good blaze.
The gardens are a blaze of colour.
a blaze of lights in the city centre
the bright blaze of the sun
a blaze of glory
They got married in a blaze of publicity.
a blaze of anger/passion/hate
What the blazes have you done?
blazing heat
a blazing hot day
She had a blazing row with Eddie and stormed out of the house.
He had the word 'Cool' blazoned across his chest.
bones of animals bleaching in the sun
His hair was bleached by the sun.
bleached cotton/paper
She bleached her hair blonde.
bleacher seats
a bleak outlook/prospect
The future looks bleak for the fishing industry.
The medical prognosis was bleak.
a bleak winter's day
a bleak landscape/hillside/moor
bleak concrete housing
'There seems no hope,' she said bleakly.
bleakly lit corridors
She had bleary red eyes from lack of sleep.
'I was asleep,' she explained blearily.
He appeared at breakfast bleary-eyed and with a hangover.
'But I've only just got here,' he bleated feebly.
The lamb gave a faint bleat.
the distant bleating of sheep
My finger's bleeding.
She slowly bled to death.
He was bleeding from a gash on his head.
My ex-wife is bleeding me for every penny I have.
Keep the paint fairly dry so that the colours don't bleed into each other.
The big corporations are bleeding some of these small countries dry.
'I have to go to Brazil on business.' 'My heart bleeds for you!'
Press firmly on the wound to stop the bleeding.
They were working at the bleeding edge of chip design.
a bleeding-heart liberal
The microwave will bleep when your meal is ready.
Please bleep the doctor on duty immediately.
make-up to cover blemishes
(figurative) His reputation is without a blemish.
Blend the flour with the milk to make a smooth paste.
Blend together the eggs, sugar and flour.
Mix all the ingredients together in a bowl.
Oil and water do not mix.
She stirred her tea.
The sounds of laughter and singing mingled in the evening air.
He felt a kind of happiness mingled with regret.
Oil does not blend with water.
Oil and water do not blend.
The old and new buildings blend together perfectly.
Their music blends traditional and modern styles.
blended whisky/tea
Choose curtains that blend in with your decor.
The thieves soon blended in with the crowd and got away.
Beat the butter and sugar; then blend in the egg.
He blended into the crowd.
a blend of tea
a blend of youth and experience
Blended learning is a cost-effective way of delivering training.
They brought the children to Jesus and he blessed them.
God bless you!
The priest blessed the bread and wine.
We bless your holy name, O Lord.
Bless my soul! Here comes Bill!
'Where's Joe?' 'I'm blessed if I know!' (= I don't know)
Sarah, bless her, had made a cup of tea.
Goodnight, God bless.
'He bought us all a present.' 'Oh, bless!'
the Blessed Virgin Mary
Blessed are the poor.
a moment of blessed calm
I can't see a blessed thing without my glasses.
The kitchen was warm and blessedly familiar.
to pray for God's blessing
The bishop said the blessing.
The government gave its blessing to the new plans.
He went with his parents' blessing.
Lack of traffic is one of the blessings of country life.
It's a blessing that nobody was in the house at the time.
His career has been blighted by injuries.
an area blighted by unemployment
potato blight
His death cast a blight on the whole of that year.
urban blight (= areas in a city that are ugly or not cared for well)
Blimey, it's hot today.
Doctors think he will go blind.
blind and partially sighted people
One of her parents is blind.
recorded books for the blind
guide dogs for the blind
She is blind to her husband's faults.
I must have been blind not to realize the danger we were in.
blind faith/obedience
It was a moment of blind panic.
blind chance
the blind force of nature
a blind driveway
a blind bend/corner
total/temporary/partial blindness
She was blinded in the explosion.
When she went outside she was temporarily blinded by the sun.
His sense of loyalty blinded him to the truth.
There was a lot of effing and blinding going on.
a blinder of a game
The hostages were tied up and blindfolded.
The reporter was taken blindfold to a secret location.
I knew the way home blindfold (= because it was so familiar).
I could do that blindfold (= very easily, with no problems).
a blinding flash of light
(figurative) a blinding (= very bad) headache
The reason is blindingly obvious.
The latest computers can work at a blindingly fast speed.
She groped blindly for the light switch in the dark room.
He wanted to decide for himself instead of blindly following his parents' advice.
Just when it seemed life was going well, she was blindsided by a devastating illness.
women with big hair and bling jewellery
bling culture/lifestyles
He blinked in the bright sunlight.
I'll be back before you can blink (= very quickly).
When I told him the news he didn't even blink (= showed no surprise at all).
Suddenly a warning light blinked.
She bravely blinked back her tears.
(figurative) We need to have a fresh look at the plan, without blinkers (= we need to consider every aspect of it).
a blinkered policy/attitude/approach
Shut the blinking door!
a temporary blip
married/wedded/domestic bliss
My idea of bliss is a month in the Bahamas.
Swimming on a hot day is sheer bliss.
Some doctors believe ignorance is bliss and don't give their patients all the facts.
We spent three blissful weeks away from work.
a blissful smile
We preferred to remain in blissful ignorance of (= not to know) what was going on.
a happy marriage/memory/childhood
I said I'd go, just to keep him happy.
She's never satisfied with what she's got.
a satisfied smile
I'm perfectly content just to lie in the sun.
a contented baby
a long contented sigh
three blissful weeks away
blissfully happy
blissfully ignorant/unaware
His skin was beginning to blister.
Her face had been blistered by the sun.
cracked and blistered skin
blistered paintwork
The runners set off at a blistering pace.
a blistering July day
blistering heat
a blistering attack
He drove with blithe disregard for the rules of the road.
a blithe and carefree girl
He was blithely unaware of the trouble he'd caused.
'It'll be easy,' she said blithely.
He was a blithering idiot.
an advertising/a media blitz (= a lot of information about sth on television, in newspapers, etc.)
Five shops were damaged in a firebomb blitz.
(figurative) a blitz on passengers who avoid paying fares
(figurative) I've had a blitz on the house (= cleaned it very thoroughly).
Blitz the strawberries to a purée in a food processor.
Blitz until smooth and creamy.
blizzard conditions
a raging/howling blizzard
a blizzard of documents
Her features had been bloated by years of drinking.
a bloated body floating in the canal
(figurative) a bloated organization (= with too many people in it)
I felt bloated after the huge meal they'd served.
a blob of ink
a pink blob
a block of ice/concrete/stone
a chopping block (= for cutting food on)
a tower block
an office block
the university's science block
She took the dog for a walk around the block.
His apartment is three blocks away from the police station.
a block of shares
a block of text in a document
(BrE) The theatre gives discounts for block bookings (= a large number of tickets bought at the same time).
The three-hour class is divided into four blocks of 45 minutes each.
Lack of training acts as a block to progress in a career.
After today's heavy snow, many roads are still blocked.
a blocked sink
One of the guards moved to block her path.
An ugly new building blocked the view from the window.
The proposed merger has been blocked by the government.
His shot was blocked by the goalie.
I have blocked in the shapes of the larger buildings.
Black clouds blocked out the sun.
Over the years she had tried to block out that part of her life.
One door had been blocked up.
My nose is blocked up.
Please fill out the form in block capitals.
a naval blockade
to impose/lift a blockade
an economic blockade (= stopping goods from entering or leaving a country)
The police set up blockades on highways leading out of the city.
a blockage in an artery/a pipe/a drain
to cause/clear the blockage
a Hollywood blockbuster
a blockbusting performance
I will be blogging from the convention all week.
Here are some reactions to the story I blogged this morning.
The article is quite bloggy, with lots of opinions rather than facts.
The film gave me a whole range of bloggable ideas.
It's one of the top stories in the blogosphere.
the growing influence of the political blogosphere
He seemed like a nice bloke.
a small, blond boy
Is she a natural blonde (= Is her hair naturally blonde)?
He lost a lot of blood in the accident.
Blood was pouring out of a cut on her head.
to give blood (= to have blood taken from you so that it can be used in the medical treatment of other people)
to draw blood (= to wound a person so that they lose blood)
a blood cell/sample
cold-blooded reptiles
She is of noble blood.
a dictator with the blood of thousands on his hands
Getting an apology from him was like getting blood from a stone.
to kill sb in cold blood
Listening to the cries was more than flesh and blood could stand.
a blood clot on the brain
(BrE) What blood group are you?
(NAmE) What blood type do you have?
blood group/type O
to have high/low blood pressure
to take (= measure) sb's blood pressure
He was given a blood transfusion.
a blood-curdling scream/story
his bruised and bloodied nose
Don't be such a bloody fool.
That was a bloody good meal!
What bloody awful weather!
She did bloody well to win that race.
He doesn't bloody care about anybody else.
'Will you apologize?' 'Not bloody likely!' (= Certainly not!)
You can bloody well keep your job—I don't want it!
a bloody battle
The terrorists have halted their bloody campaign of violence.
to give sb a bloody nose (= in a fight)
a bloodless coup/revolution
bloodless lips
The two sides called a truce to avoid further bloodshed.
a bloodstained shirt
They injected the drug directly into her bloodstream.
bloodsucking insects
(disapproving) bloodsucking lawyers
the exotic blooms of the orchid
the bloom in her cheeks
Most roses will begin to bloom from late May.
The children had bloomed during their stay on the farm.
a pair of bloomers
What blooming awful weather!
cherry/orange/apple blossom
The trees are in blossom.
She has visibly blossomed over the last few months.
Their friendship blossomed into love.
Clouds blotted out the sun.
He tried to blot out the image of Helen's sad face.
The kids left dirty marks all over the kitchen floor.
blood stains
Her fingerprints were all over the gun.
She had streaks of grey in her hair.
There isn't a speck of dust anywhere in the house.
There were grease spots all over the walls.
Her involvement in the fraud has left a serious blot on her character.
He had come out in (= become covered in) dark red blotches.
her blotchy and swollen face
You're not blowing hard enough!
The policeman asked me to blow into the breathalyser.
He drew on his cigarette and blew out a stream of smoke.
A cold wind blew from the east.
It was blowing hard.
It was blowing a gale (= there was a strong wind).
My hat blew off.
The door blew open.
I was almost blown over by the wind.
She blew the dust off the book.
The ship was blown onto the rocks.
The wind blew the door shut.
The referee blew his whistle.
the sound of trumpets blowing
to blow smoke rings
to blow bubbles (= for example, by blowing onto a thin layer of water mixed with soap)
to blow glass (= to send a current of air into melted glass to shape it)
The car spun out of control when a tyre blew.
The truck blew a tyre and lurched off the road.
The safe had been blown by the thieves.
One mistake could blow your cover (= make your real name, job, intentions, etc. known).
He inherited over a million dollars and blew it all on drink and gambling.
She blew her chances by arriving late for the interview.
You had your chance and you blew it.
Blow it! We've missed the bus.
Well, blow me down! I never thought I'd see you again.
I'm blowed if I'm going to (= I certainly will not) let him treat you like that.
Let's take a taxi and blow (= never mind) the expense.
Let's blow this joint.
I like my old phone, but this new model blows it out of the water.
Wait till you hear this. It'll blow your mind.
Sod that for a lark! I'm not doing any more tonight.
Her article lifts the lid on child prostitution.
What we discovered blew apart all our preconceptions about this fascinating species.
Look who's just blown in!
Have you heard who's blown into town?
He looks for any excuse he can to blow off work.
Somebody opened the door and the candle blew out.
The storm blew over in the night.
The scandal will soon blow over.
The bomb blew up.
A police officer was killed when his car blew up.
The jet smashed into a hillside and exploded.
The bomb was exploded under controlled conditions.
A police officer was killed when his car blew up.
The bomb went off in a crowded street.
That balloon's going to burst.
Two other bombs failed to detonate.
A storm was blowing up.
A crisis has blown up over the President's latest speech.
The police station was blown up by terrorists.
The tyres on my bike need blowing up.
The whole affair was blown up out of all proportion.
I'm sorry I blew up at you.
She received a severe blow on the head.
He was knocked out by a single blow to the head.
The two men were exchanging blows.
He landed a blow on Hill's nose.
Losing his job came as a terrible blow to him.
It was a shattering blow to her pride.
Give your nose a good blow (= clear it completely).
Her sudden death dealt a blow to the whole country.
He felt that they had struck a blow for democracy.
Blow! I completely forgot it.
a cut and blow-dry
Can you do me a blow-up of his face?
blowback gas
Blowback may be caused by a defective mechanism.
The policy has led to blowback.
The war created a ferocious blowback.
a hot-air blower
to have a blowout
a four-course blowout
We're going to have a huge blowout for Valentine's Day.
The game was a blowout, 8–1.
I'll have a BLT with extra mayonnaise.
These high definition movies are all out on Blu-ray.
There he sat, blubbering like a baby.
The girls bludged smokes.
They tried to bludgeon me into joining their protest.
piercing blue eyes
a blue shirt
Her hands were blue with cold.
He'd been feeling blue all week.
a blue movie
blue states/counties
the blueness of the water
You can argue till you're blue in the face, but you won't change my mind.
bright/dark/light/pale blue
The room was decorated in vibrant blues and yellows.
She was dressed in blue.
The decision came out of the blue.
a blue-riband event (= a very important one)
blue-chip companies
blue-collar workers/voters/votes
He's the manager's blue-eyed boy.
The government has been doing some blue-sky thinking on how to improve school standards.
a blueprint for the privatization of health care
DNA carries the genetic blueprint which tells any organism how to build itself.
a blues band/singer
the Monday morning blues
a bluesy sound/voice
Bluetooth-enabled devices
I don't think he'll shoot—I think he's just bluffing.
She successfully bluffed her way through the interview.
It was just a game of bluff.
He said he would resign if he didn't get more money, but it was only a bluff.
Beneath his bluff exterior he was a sensitive man.
a bluish-green carpet
to make a terrible blunder
a series of political blunders
The government had blundered in its handling of the affair.
a blunt knife
This pencil's blunt!
The police said he had been hit with a blunt instrument.
She has a reputation for blunt speaking.
To be blunt, your work is appalling.
Thank you for being so honest with me.
To be frank with you, I think your son has little chance of passing the exam.
You'll have to get used to his direct manner.
He was quite open about his reasons for leaving.
She was outspoken in her criticism of the plan.
I don't think you're being straight with me.
She has a reputation for blunt speaking.
a(n) honest/frank admission of guilt
I'm a very open person.
Age hadn't blunted his passion for adventure.
To put it bluntly, I want a divorce.
'Is she dead?' he asked bluntly.
His arm was a rapid blur of movement as he struck.
Everything is a blur when I take my glasses off.
The events of that day were just a blur.
The writing blurred and danced before his eyes.
The mist blurred the edges of the buildings.
Tears blurred her eyes.
The differences between art and life seem to have blurred.
She tends to blur the distinction between her friends and her colleagues.
She suffered from dizziness and blurred vision.
a blurred image/picture
blurred memories
blurred distinctions/boundaries
blurry, distorted photographs
(figurative) a blurry policy
She blurted it out before I could stop her.
I thought I heard someone calling.
She cried out for help.
I cried out his name.
'It isn't fair!' he exclaimed angrily.
He blurted out the answer without thinking.
'He's a bully!' the little boy burst out.
to blush with embarrassment/shame
She blushed furiously at the memory of the conversation.
He blushed scarlet at the thought.
I blush to admit it, but I quite like her music.
She felt a warm blush rise to her cheeks.
He turned away to hide his blushes.
'I don't know what you're talking about,' he blustered.
a blustering bully
I wasn't frightened by what he said—it was all bluster.
blustery winds/conditions
The day was cold and blustery.
She's got BO.
He had ripped up the carpet, leaving only the bare boards.
a blackboard
I'll write it up on the board.
(BrE) a noticeboard
(NAmE) a bulletin board
The exam results went up on the board.
a diving board
She jumped off the top board.
a chessboard
He removed the figure from the board.
She has a seat on the board of directors.
The board is/are unhappy about falling sales.
members of the board
discussions at board level
the academic board (= for example, of a British university)
(NAmE) the Board of Education (= a group of elected officials who are in charge of all the public schools in a particular area)
the Welsh Tourist Board (= responsible for giving tourist information)
He pays £90 a week board and lodging.
His play is on the boards on Broadway.
She's treading the boards (= working as an actress).
The puck went wide, hitting the boards.
All her efforts to be polite went by the board and she started to shout.
Have the passengers gone on board yet?
We must get more sponsors on board.
You need to bring the whole staff on board.
I told her what I thought, but she didn't take my advice on board.
Passengers are waiting to board.
The ship was boarded by customs officials.
Flight BA193 for Paris is now boarding at Gate 37.
She always had one or two students boarding with her.
boarders and day pupils
boarding fees
a boardroom row
I don't want to boast, but I can actually speak six languages.
She is always boasting about how wonderful her children are.
He openly boasted of his skill as a burglar.
Sam boasted that she could beat anyone at poker.
'I won!' she boasted.
The hotel also boasts two swimming pools and a golf course.
Despite his boasts that his children were brilliant, neither of them went to college.
It was her proud boast that she had never missed a day's work because of illness.
I tried to emphasize my good points without sounding boastful.
a rowing/sailing boat
a fishing boat
You can take a boat trip along the coast.
'How are you going to France?' 'We're going by boat (= by ferry ).'
Think carefully before you resign—you don't want to burn your bridges.
You can listen to whatever kind of music floats your boat.
If you don't buy now, you may find that you've missed the boat.
She was told to keep her mouth shut and not rock the boat.
to go boating
Local activities include walking, boating and golf.
Tiny boats bobbed up and down in the harbour.
She bobbed her head nervously.
The dark head of a seal bobbed up a few yards away.
a bob of the head
She wears her hair in a bob.
That'll cost a few bob (= a lot of money).
Press here and Bob's your uncle! It's disappeared.
a woolly hat with a bobble on top
The ball somehow bobbled into the net.
She tried to catch the ball but bobbled it.
She's a bit of an odd bod (= rather strange).
He's got a great bod.
boys on boda bodas riding on Kampala's streets
These figures do not bode well for the company's future.
a human/female/male/naked body
parts of the body
His whole body was trembling.
body fat/weight/temperature/size/heat
She bit her lip nervously.
He scratched his head and looked thoughtful.
I wrinkled my nose in disgust.
She raised questioning eyebrows.
She had injuries to her head and body.
He has a large body, but thin legs.
a dead body
The family of the missing girl has been called in by the police to identify the body.
the body of a plane (= the central part where the seats are)
the main body of the text
a regulatory /an advisory /a review body
The governing body of the school is/are concerned about discipline.
recognized professional bodies such as the Law Association
An independent body has been set up to investigate the affair.
A large body of people will be affected by the tax cuts.
The protesters marched in a body (= all together) to the White House.
a meeting of representatives of the student body and teaching staff
a vast body of evidence/information/research
large bodies of water (= lakes or seas)
There is a powerful body of opinion against the ruling.
heavenly bodies (= stars, planets, etc.)
an operation to remove a foreign body (= sth that would not usually be there) from a wound
a wine with plenty of body
Regular use of conditioner is supposed to give your hair more body.
full-bodied red wines
soft-bodied insects
She committed herself body and soul to fighting for the cause.
They barely have enough money to keep body and soul together.
She was honest and hard-working, and didn't have an unkind bone in her body.
She moves into our home over my dead body.
bodily functions/changes/needs
bodily fluids
bodily harm (= physical injury)
The force of the blast hurled us bodily to the ground.
He lifted her bodily into the air.
The monument was moved bodily to a new site.
tattooing and body piercing
She had a nose stud and multiple ear piercings.
The President's bodyguard is/are armed.
the Boer War (= the war between the Boers and the British, 1899–1902)
a peat bog
Have you got any bog roll (= toilet paper)?
The tank became bogged down in mud.
We mustn't get bogged down in details.
Bog off, I'm trying to sleep!
The bogeyman's coming!
boggy ground
Even I boggle at the idea of spending so much money.
The vastness of space really boggles the mind.
'He says he's married to his cats!' 'The mind boggles!'
BOGOF offers and bargains
a bogus doctor/contract
bogus claims of injury by workers
a bohemian existence/lifestyle
The water was bubbling and boiling away.
Boil plenty of salted water, then add the spaghetti.
(BrE) The kettle's boiling.
I'll boil the kettle and make some tea.
She left the gas on by mistake and the pan boiled dry (= the water boiled until there was none left).
She put some potatoes on to boil.
boiled carrots/cabbage
to boil an egg for sb
to boil sb an egg
He was boiling with rage.
The original speech I had written got boiled down to about ten minutes.
In the end, what it all boils down to is money, or the lack of it.
Racial tension finally boiled over in the inner city riots.
I could feel anger boiling up inside me.
(BrE) Bring the soup to the boil, then allow it to simmer for five minutes.
(NAmE) Bring the soup to a boil.
The second series of the show really went off the boil.
We have several projects all on the boil at once.
You must be boiling in that sweater!
a boiling hot day
Racial tension has reached boiling point.
It was a challenge, keeping ten boisterous seven-year-olds amused.
It was a bold move on their part to open a business in France.
The wine made him bold enough to approach her.
the bold outline of a mountain against the sky
She paints with bold strokes of the brush.
Highlight the important words in bold type.
bold lettering
Headwords are printed in bold.
to give sb a bollocking
to get a bollocking
You're talking a load of bollocks!
Bollocks! He never said that!
to bolster sb's confidence/courage/morale
Falling interest rates may help to bolster up the economy.
nuts and bolts
Don't forget to bolt the door.
The gate bolts on the inside.
The vice is bolted to the workbench.
The various parts of the car are then bolted together.
When he saw the police arrive, he bolted down an alley.
Don't bolt your food!
Many Democrats bolted the party to vote Republican.
a bomb attack/blast/explosion
a bomb goes off/explodes
extensive bomb damage
Hundreds of bombs were dropped on the city.
countries which have the bomb
That dress must have cost a bomb!
The musical was a complete bomb on Broadway.
a bug bomb (= used for killing insects)
Our performance went down a bomb.
The party was really going (like) a bomb.
Terrorists bombed several army barracks.
The city was heavily bombed in the war.
They were bombing down the road at about 80 miles an hour.
The exam was impossible! I definitely bombed it.
His latest musical bombed and lost thousands of dollars.
a bomb disposal expert/squad/team
We have been bombarded with letters of complaint.
The city came under heavy bombardment.
a bombastic speaker
recent bombings in major cities
enemy bombing
The news of his death came as a bombshell.
She dropped a bombshell at the meeting and announced that she was leaving.
a bona fide reason
Is it a bona fide, reputable organization?
a cash bonanza for investors
a bonanza year for the computer industry
the usual bonanza of sport in the summer
A bond of friendship had been forged between them.
The agreement strengthened the bonds between the two countries.
the special bond between mother and child
He was released on $5 000 bond.
to pay off a bond
We had to take out a second bond on the property.
bond rates (= of interest)
to release sb from their bonds
the bonds of oppression/injustice
We entered into a solemn bond.
a firm bond between the two surfaces
This new glue bonds a variety of surfaces in seconds.
It cannot be used to bond wood to metal.
The atoms bond together to form a molecule.
Mothers who are depressed sometimes fail to bond with their children.
(figurative) women's liberation from the bondage of domestic life
national boundaries
(BrE) county boundaries
boundary changes/disputes
The fence marks the boundary between my property and hers.
Scientists continue to push back the boundaries of human knowledge.
the boundary between acceptable and unacceptable behaviour
a national park on the border between Kenya and Tanzania
The fence marked the boundary between my property and hers.
The river formed the frontier between the land of the Saxons and that of the Danes.
The rebels control the frontier and the surrounding area.
After the war the national boundaries were redrawn.
the boundary fence/wall between the properties
Many of the immigrants are used as bonded labour.
mother-child bonding
male bonding
hydrogen bonding
He survived the accident with no broken bones.
This fish has a lot of bones in it.
knives with bone handles
fine-boned
She made no bones about telling him exactly what she thought of him.
His threats chilled her to the bone.
I know I'm going to fail this exam—I can feel it in my bones.
The strength of the book is that it puts flesh on the bare bones of this argument.
She had boned up on the city's history before the visit.
a bone marrow transplant
boneless chicken breasts
the bongs of Big Ben
He's been bonking one of his students.
I bonked my head on the doorway.
I'll go bonkers if I have to wait any longer.
a bonny baby/lass
a £100 Christmas bonus
productivity bonuses
the row over bankers' bonuses
Being able to walk to work is an added bonus of the new job.
'Boo!' they shouted, 'Get off!'
The speech was greeted with loud boos from the audience.
He's so nervous he wouldn't say boo to a goose.
The audience booed as she started her speech.
He was booed off the stage.
Elitism has become a boo word in education.
I think I've made a boo-boo.
I made a bit of a boob deleting that file.
Don't be such a booby!
a pile of books
hardback/paperback books
a book by Stephen King
a book about/on wildlife
reference/children's/library books
an exercise book
a notebook
a book of stamps/tickets/matches
a chequebook
to do the books (= to check the accounts)
the books of the Bible
She always does everything by the book.
That's cheating in my book.
The police have closed the book on the case (= they have stopped trying to solve it).
His accountant had been cooking the books for years.
She has earned her place in the history books.
He'll try every trick in the book to stop you from winning.
Book early to avoid disappointment.
She booked a flight to Chicago.
The performance is booked up (= there are no more tickets available).
I'm sorry—we're fully booked.
(BrE) I'd like to book a table for two for 8 o'clock tonight.
I'd like to make a reservation for 8 o'clock tonight.
I've booked you on the 10 o'clock flight.
I've booked you a room at the Park Hotel.
We've booked a band for the wedding reception.
He was booked for possession of cocaine.
I got in at ten and booked straight into a hotel.
He's book-smart but he's got no common sense.
The book had a label in it saying it was from bookcrossing.
A friend introduced me to the idea of bookcrossing.
a booking form/hall/clerk
Can I make a booking for Friday?
Early booking is recommended.
No advance booking is necessary.
We can't take any more bookings.
Do you want to bookmark this site?
Living standards improved rapidly during the post-war boom.
a boom in car sales
a boom year (for trade, exports, etc.)
a property/housing boom
a chaotic period of boom and bust
The only way to satisfy the golf boom was to build more courses.
the distant boom of the guns
Outside, thunder boomed and crashed.
'Get out of my sight!' he boomed.
A voice boomed out from the darkness.
He had a booming voice.
By the 1980s, the computer industry was booming.
Business is booming!
The new software will prove a boon to Internet users.
to boost exports/profits
The movie helped boost her screen career.
to boost sb's confidence/morale
Getting that job did a lot to boost his ego (= make him feel more confident).
a great/tremendous/welcome boost
The tax cuts will give a much needed boost to the economy.
Winning the competition was a wonderful boost for her morale.
a boost in car sales
He gave her a boost over the fence.
a tetanus booster
a morale/confidence booster
a meeting of Republican boosters
(BrE) walking boots
(NAmE) hiking boots
a pair of black leather boots
cowboy boots
I'll put the luggage in the boot.
He gave the ball a tremendous boot.
He was a vegetarian, and a fussy one to boot.
He booted the ball clear of the goal.
I joined a boot camp to get fit.
(figurative) You can cram for the exam at a one-week boot camp.
The boot-faced security guard wouldn't let us in.
a pair of bootees
a phone booth
a polling/voting booth
an information/a ticket booth
a bootleg CD (= for example, one recorded illegally at a concert)
a bootleg of the concert
When we got home from our day's shopping, we laid all our booty out on the floor.
to shake your booty (= to dance with great energy)
He's out boozing with his mates.
to go on a booze cruise
one of my boozy friends
a boozy lunch
Denmark's border with Germany
in the US, near the Canadian border
Nevada's northern border
to cross the border
to flee across/over the border
border guards/controls
a border dispute/incident
a border town/state
(figurative) It is difficult to define the border between love and friendship.
a pillowcase with a lace border
the countries bordering the Baltic
Meadows bordered the path to the woods.
The large garden is bordered by a stream.
She felt an anxiety bordering on hysteria.
areas bordering on the Black Sea
the murky borderland between history and myth
In borderline cases teachers will take the final decision, based on the student's previous work.
a borderline pass/fail in an exam
This biography sometimes crosses the borderline between fact and fiction.
I'm not boring you, am I?
Has he been boring you with his stories about his trip?
The drill is strong enough to bore through solid rock.
to bore a hole in sth
His blue eyes seemed to bore into her.
It's such a bore having to stay late this evening.
a tube with a wide/narrow bore
a twelve-bore shotgun
There was a bored expression on her face.
The children quickly got bored with staying indoors.
I started to eat too much out of sheer boredom.
Television helps to relieve the boredom of the long winter evenings.
a boring man
a boring job/book/evening
He's such a boring man!
She found her job very boring.
Life in a small town could be deadly dull.
The journey soon became tedious.
boringly normal
I was born in 1976.
She was born with a weak heart.
She was born into a very musical family.
He was born of/to German parents.
Her brother was born blind (= was blind when he was born).
John Wayne was born Marion Michael Morrison (= that was his name at birth).
the city where the protest movement was born
She acted with a courage born (out) of desperation.
firstborn
nobly born
French-born
He was born and bred in Boston.
I'm a Londoner, born and bred.
I've never heard such nonsense in all my born days.
Oh yeah? I wasn't born yesterday, you know.
You people without kids don't know you're born.
a born athlete/writer/leader
a born loser (= a person who always loses or is unsuccessful)
a born-again Christian
a born-again vegetarian
waterborne diseases
the London borough of Westminster
The Bronx is one of the five boroughs of New York.
a borough council
Can I borrow your umbrella?
Members can borrow up to ten books from the library at any one time.
(BrE, informal) I borrowed the DVD off my brother.
Can I borrow your pen?
Can I borrow a pen from you?
Here, I'll lend you my pen.
She borrowed £2 000 from her parents.
I don't like to borrow from friends.
(informal) I had to borrow the money off a friend.
The author borrows heavily from Henry James.
Some musical terms are borrowed from Italian.
an attempt to reduce bank borrowings
High interest rates help to keep borrowing down.
her ample bosom
She pressed him to her bosom.
a rose pinned to her bosom
to live in the bosom of your family
I'll ask my boss if I can have the day off.
I like being my own boss (= working for myself and making my own decisions).
Who's the boss (= who's in control) in this house?
the new boss at IBM
Hospital bosses protested at the decision.
I'm sick of you bossing me around!
He completely botched up the interview.
The work they did on the house was a botched job.
I've made a real botch of the decorating.
Both women were French.
Both the women were French.
Both of the women were French.
I talked to the women. Both of them were French/They were both French.
I liked them both.
We were both tired.
Both of us were tired.
We have both seen the movie.
I have two sisters. Both of them live in London/They both live in London.
Both (my) sisters live in London.
Both his mother and his father will be there.
For this job you will need a good knowledge of both Italian and Spanish.
This chart provides a comparison of the ways that teenage boys and girls in the UK spend their free time.
In many cases, the results for boys and girls are virtually the same / identical.
In many cases, the results for boys are virtually the same as / identical to the results for girls.
Both boys and girls spend the bulk of their free time with friends.
Most of the boys do more than two hours of sport a week, as do many of the girls.
Like many of the girls, most of the boys spend a large part of their free time using the Internet.
The girls particularly enjoy using social networking websites. Similarly, nearly all the boys said they spent at least two to three hours a week on these sites.
'Shall I wait?' 'No, don't bother'.
I don't know why I bother! Nobody ever listens!
It's not worth bothering with (= using) an umbrella—the car's just outside.
I don't know why you bother with that crowd (= why you spend time with them).
He didn't even bother to let me know he was coming.
Why bother asking if you're not really interested?
The thing that bothers me is…
That sprained ankle is still bothering her (= hurting).
'I'm sorry he was so rude to you.' 'It doesn't bother me.'
I don't want to bother her with my problems at the moment.
Does it bother you that she earns more than you?
It bothers me to think of her alone in that big house.
Stop bothering me when I'm working.
Let me know if he bothers you again.
Sorry to bother you, but there's a call for you on line two.
I should really do some work this weekend but I can't be bothered.
All this has happened because you couldn't be bothered to give me the message.
You seem to have got yourself into a spot of bother.
I don't want to put you to any bother (= cause you any trouble).
Don't go to the bother of tidying up on my account (= don't make the effort to do it).
'Thanks for your help!' 'It was no bother.'
Call them and save yourself the bother of going round.
I hope I haven't been a bother.
Bother! I've left my wallet at home.
Oh, bother him! He's never around when you need him.
Do you think she's been Botoxed?
a wine/beer/milk bottle
Put the top back on the bottle.
He drank a whole bottle of wine.
After his wife died, he really hit the bottle (= started drinking heavily).
It's time for her bottle.
It took a lot of bottle to do that.
The wines are bottled after three years.
bottled beer/water/pickles
bottled gas (= sold in metal containers for use in heating and cooking)
Try not to bottle up your emotions.
She's a bottle blonde.
a bottle-green coat
I waited for them at the bottom of the hill.
The book I want is right at the bottom (= of the pile).
The manufacturer's name is on the bottom of the plate.
I found some coins at the bottom of my bag.
He dived in and hit his head on the bottom.
I went to the school at the bottom of our street.
There was a stream at the bottom of the garden.
a battle between the teams at the bottom of the league
You have to be prepared to start at the bottom and work your way up.
I was always bottom of the class in math.
a pair of pyjama/tracksuit bottoms
a bikini bottom
a flat-bottomed boat
The bottom has fallen out of the travel market.
I beg you, from the bottom of my heart, to spare his life.
It was clearly an offer that came from the heart.
We cleaned the house from top to bottom.
the bottom line (on a page)
your bottom lip
the bottom step (of a flight of stairs)
on the bottom shelf
Put your clothes in the bottom drawer.
Their house is at the bottom end of Bury Road (= the end furthest from where you enter the road).
in the bottom right-hand corner of the page
the bottom end of the price range
to go up a hill in bottom gear
We came bottom (= got the worst result) with 12 points.
The recession is finally beginning to show signs of bottoming out.
The bottom line is that we have to make a decision today.
The bottom line for 2014 was a pre-tax profit of £85 million.
a bottom-up approach to tackling the problem
Sunset Boulevard
The ball bounced twice before he could reach it.
Short sound waves bounce off even small objects.
The light bounced off the river and dazzled her.
She bounced the ball against the wall.
She bounced up and down excitedly on the bed.
Her hair bounced as she walked.
The bus bounced down the hill.
He bounced across the room to greet them.
He bounced ideas off colleagues everywhere he went.
He was soon bounced from the post.
He's had a lot of problems, but he always seems to bounce back pretty quickly.
The airline's shares have bounced back from two days of heavy losses.
one bounce of the ball
(NAmE) a bounce (= increase) in popularity
There's not much bounce left in these balls.
Players complained about the uneven bounce of the tennis court.
All her old bounce was back.
There was a bounce to his step.
thin fine hair, lacking in bounce
We've won six matches on the bounce.
a very bouncy ball
his bouncy blond curls
a bouncing baby boy
beyond/outside/within the bounds of decency
Public spending must be kept within reasonable bounds.
It was not beyond the bounds of possibility that they would meet again one day.
His enthusiasm knew no bounds (= was very great).
His shot went out of bounds.
His demands were out of bounds.
a bounty hunter (= sb who catches criminals or kills people for a reward)
a bountiful supply of food
belief in a bountiful god
The little girl presented the princess with a large bouquet of flowers.
a traditional bourgeois family
bourgeois attitudes/tastes
They've become very bourgeois since they got married.
bourgeois ideology
a drinking bout
the latest bout of inflation
a severe bout of flu/coughing
He suffered occasional bouts of depression.
(NAmE) a bout with the flu
a boutique hotel that offers an escape from the outside world
a boutique investment bank
a buoyant economy/market
buoyant sales/prices
a buoyant demand for homes
They were all in buoyant mood.
The boat bobbed like a cork on the waves: light and buoyant.
Salt water is more buoyant than fresh water.
the buoyancy of the market
a mood of buoyancy
a buoyancy aid (= sth to help you float)
bovine diseases
He bowed low to the assembled crowd.
The people all bowed down before the Emperor.
She bowed her head in shame.
They stood in silence with their heads bowed.
The pines bowed in the wind.
Their backs were bowed under the weight of their packs.
She has finally decided it's time to bow out of international tennis.
They finally bowed to pressure from the public.
She bowed to the inevitable (= accepted a situation in which she had no choice) and resigned.
He was armed with a bow and arrow.
to tie your shoelaces in a bow
Her hair was tied back in a neat bow.
(medical 医学) to empty/move/open your bowels (= to pass solid waste out of the body)
bowel cancer/cancer of the bowel
A rumble came from the bowels of the earth (= deep underground).
a salad/fruit/sugar, etc. bowl
a washing-up bowl
a bowl of soup
the bowl of a spoon
a toilet/lavatory bowl
the Hollywood Bowl
the Super Bowl
Some kids were throwing stones at the window.
She threw the ball and he caught it.
She tossed her jacket onto the bed.
Rioters hurled a brick through the car's windscreen.
She flung the letter down onto the table.
I chucked him the keys.
They were lobbing stones over the wall.
Soon we were bowling along the country roads.
She kept all the letters in a box.
a money box
cardboard boxes
a toolbox
a matchbox
a box of chocolates/matches
a box at the opera
the witness/jury box
a sentry/signal box
(BrE) a telephone box
I called him from the phone box on the corner.
Put a cross in the appropriate box.
to tick/check a box
What's on the box tonight?
Only traffic turning right may enter the box.
(BrE) He was fouled in the box (= the penalty box).
This is a movie that ticks all the boxes.
Someone had parked behind us and boxed us in.
She felt boxed in by all their petty rules.
The movie has been a huge box-office success (= many people have been to see it).
a boxed set of original recordings
a professional/amateur/heavyweight boxer
a pair of boxer shorts
a boxy car
a boxing champion/match
heavyweight boxing
a little/small/young boy
I used to play here as a boy.
The older boys at school used to tease him.
Now she's a teenager, she's starting to be interested in boys.
They have two boys and a girl.
Her eldest boy is at college.
a delivery boy
He's a local boy.
a city/country boy
a night out with the boys
He's been doing the same job for 50 years—man and boy.
Boy, it sure is hot!
Oh boy! That's great!
We are asking people to boycott goods from companies that use child labour.
a trade boycott of British goods
a boycott on the use of tropical wood
boyhood days/memories/friends
boyish charm/enthusiasm
her slim boyish figure
We're having a braai at our place next Saturday.
a bring-and-braai (= everyone brings their own meat)
a neck brace (= worn to support the neck after an injury)
a pair of braces
UN troops are braced for more violence.
They are bracing themselves for a long legal battle.
They braced themselves against the wind.
He stood with his legs and shoulders braced, ready to lift the weights.
The roof was braced by lengths of timber.
bracing sea air
Publication dates are given in brackets after each title.
Add the numbers in brackets first.
people in the lower income bracket
Most of the houses are out of our price bracket.
the 30–34 age bracket (= people aged between 30 and 34)
It is unfair to bracket together those who cannot work with those who will not.
brackish lakes/lagoons/marshes
He bragged to his friends about the crime.
a Boston Brahmin
The general's uniform was trimmed with gold braid.
She wears her hair in braids.
She'd braided her hair.
damage to the brain
brain cells
She died of a brain tumour.
a device to measure brain activity during sleep
sheep's brains
It doesn't take much brain to work out that both stories can't be true.
Teachers spotted that he had a good brain at an early age.
You need brains as well as brawn (= intelligence as well as strength) to do this job.
one of the best scientific brains in the country
He's always been the brains of the family.
The band's drummer is the brains behind their latest venture.
He has sex on the brain.
She racked her brains, trying to remember exactly what she had said.
I nearly brained myself on that low beam.
Chick-lit novels have been dismissed as brain candy.
Look, this isn't brain surgery we're doing here.
She had a brainstorm in the exam and didn't answer a single question.
a brainstorming session
Brainstorm as many ideas as possible.
The group is accused of brainwashing its young members.
Women have been brainwashed into thinking that they must go out to work in order to fulfil themselves.
the victims of brainwashing and torture
I've had a brainwave!
braising steak (= that is suitable for braising)
to put/slam on the brakes
the brake pedal
High interest rates are a brake on the economy.
The car skidded as he jammed on the brakes.
The car braked and swerved.
The truck braked to a halt.
You don't need to brake at every bend.
She had to brake hard to avoid running into the car in front.
He braked the car and pulled in to the side of the road.
a breakdown on the motorway
a breakdown recovery service
the breakdown of a marriage
marriage breakdown
a breakdown in communications
The breakdown of the negotiations was not unexpected.
the breakdown of law and order
First, let's look at a breakdown of the costs.
the breakdown of proteins in the digestive system
She's still recovering from her breakdown.
The bank has branches all over the country.
Our New York branch is dealing with the matter.
the anti-terrorist branch
the branch of computer science known as 'artificial intelligence'
a branch of the Rhine
a branch line (= a small line off a main railway line, often in country areas)
My uncle's branch of the family emigrated to Canada.
The government set out to destroy the organization root and branch.
root-and-branch reforms
The accident happened where the road branches.
Just after the lake, the path branches off to the right.
The company branched out into selling insurance.
I decided to branch out on my own.
Which brand of toothpaste do you use?
(BrE) You pay less for the supermarket's own brand.
(NAmE) You pay less for the store brand.
brand loyalty (= the tendency of customers to continue buying the same brand)
Champagne houses owe their success to brand image.
the leading brand of detergent
an unorthodox brand of humour
They were branded as liars and cheats.
The newspapers branded her a hypocrite.
a brand new computer
She bought her car brand new.
branded drugs/goods/products
Beneath his brash exterior, he's still a little boy inside.
solid brass fittings/door handles
a brass plate (= a sign outside a building giving the name and profession of the person who works there)
to clean/polish the brass
music for piano, strings and brass
I didn't think she would have the brass neck to do that.
The girls' outdoor track team has grabbed the brass ring seven times.
the brassy blonde behind the bar
a spoiled/spoilt brat
a bratty kid
an act of sheer bravado
brave men and women
Be brave!
I wasn't brave enough to tell her what I thought of her.
a brave decision
She died after a brave fight against cancer.
He felt homesick, but made a brave attempt to appear cheerful.
a vision of a brave new Britain
an award for outstanding bravery
acts of skill and bravery
He did not feel up to braving the journalists at the airport.
Over a thousand people braved the elements (= went outside in spite of the bad weather) to attend the march.
America, the land of the free and the home of the brave
a bravura performance
braw lads and bonny lasses
It was a braw day.
a drunken brawl
He got into a fight with a man in the bar.
Clashes broke out between police and demonstrators.
a drunken brawl in a bar
There were no signs of a struggle at the murder scene.
He was involved in a scuffle with a photographer.
They were arrested for brawling in the street.
In this job you need brains as well as brawn.
He was a great brawny brute of a man.
He brayed with laughter.
a braying voice
She had become brazen about the whole affair.
his brazen admission that he was cheating
She had brazenly admitted allowing him back into the house.
Now that everyone knew the truth, the only thing to do was to brazen it out.
a breach of contract/copyright/warranty
They are in breach of Article 119.
(BrE)(a) breach of the peace (= the crime of behaving in a noisy or violent way in public)
a breach of confidence/trust
a breach of security (= when sth that is normally protected is no longer secure)
a breach in Franco-German relations
They escaped through a breach in the wire fence.
The government is accused of breaching the terms of the treaty.
The dam had been breached.
a loaf/slice/piece of bread
white/brown/wholemeal bread
a piece of bread and butter
Employment and taxation are the bread-and-butter issues of politics.
Many people without jobs are living on the breadline (= are very poor).
She estimated the breadth of the lake to be 500 metres.
He was surprised at her breadth of reading.
The curriculum needs breadth and balance.
a new political leader whose breadth of vision (= willingness to accept new ideas) can persuade others to change
They have travelled the length and breadth of Europe giving concerts.
All the windows broke with the force of the blast.
She dropped the plate and it broke into pieces.
to break a cup/window
She fell off a ladder and broke her arm.
He broke the chocolate in two.
The balloon hit a tree and burst.
The ice started to crack.
Crumble the cheese into a bowl.
Now cut the wire in two.
He fell and fractured his hip.
The vase hit the floor and shattered.
Vandals had smashed two windows.
I snapped the pencil in half.
The bag had split open on the way home.
She tore the letter into pieces.
My watch has broken.
I think I've broken the washing machine.
The dog bit me but didn't break the skin.
to break the law/rules/conditions
to break an agreement/a contract/a promise/your word
to break an appointment (= not to come to it)
He was breaking the speed limit (= travelling faster than the law allows).
Let's break for lunch.
a broken night's sleep (= a night during which you often wake up)
(especially BrE) We broke our journey in Oxford (= stopped in Oxford on the way to the place we were going to).
She broke the silence by coughing.
A tree broke his fall (= stopped him as he was falling).
The phone rang and broke my train of thought.
an attempt to break the year-long siege
Management has not succeeded in breaking the strike.
He broke all ties with his parents.
He finally managed to break free from his attacker.
to break sb's morale/resistance/resolve/spirit
The government was determined to break the power of the trade unions.
The scandal broke him (= ruined his reputation and destroyed his confidence).
She broke under questioning (= was no longer able to bear it) and confessed to everything.
The death of his wife broke him completely.
The clouds broke and the sun came out.
Dawn was breaking when they finally left.
There was a public outcry when the scandal broke.
breaking news (= news that is arriving about events that have just happened)
Who's going to break it to her?
I'm sorry to be the one to break the news to you.
Her voice broke as she told us the dreadful news.
She had broken the world 100 metres record.
The movie broke all box-office records.
the sound of waves breaking on the beach
The sea was breaking over the wrecked ship.
to break a code
Can you break a twenty-dollar bill?
The prisoner broke away from his guards.
The people of the province wished to break away and form a new state.
She broke away from the pack and opened up a two-second lead.
The telephone system has broken down.
We (= the car) broke down on the freeway.
Negotiations between the two sides have broken down.
Her health broke down under the pressure of work.
He broke down and wept when he heard the news.
Expenditure on the project breaks down as follows: wages $10m, plant $4m, raw materials $5m.
Firefighters had to break the door down to reach the people trapped inside.
to break down resistance/opposition
to break down sb's reserve/shyness
Attempts must be made to break down the barriers of fear and hostility which divide the two communities.
Break your expenditure down into bills, food and other.
Each lesson is broken down into several units.
Sugar and starch are broken down in the stomach.
She had to hold him back as he tried to break for the door.
Burglars had broken in while we were away.
to break in new recruits
The young horse was not yet broken in (= trained to carry a rider).
She longed to break in on their conversation but didn't want to appear rude.
'I didn't do it!' she broke in.
We had our car broken into last week.
As the President's car drew up, the crowd broke into loud applause.
He broke into a run when he saw the police.
Her horse broke into a trot.
I had to break into a £20 note to pay the bus fare.
They had to break into the emergency food supplies.
The company is having difficulty breaking into new markets.
The back section of the plane had broken off.
He broke off in the middle of a sentence.
She broke off a piece of chocolate and gave it to me.
Britain threatened to break off diplomatic relations.
They've broken off their engagement.
They had escaped to America shortly before war broke out in 1939.
Fighting had broken out between rival groups of fans.
Fire broke out during the night.
Several prisoners broke out of the jail.
She needed to break out of her daily routine and do something exciting.
Her face broke out in a rash.
He broke out in a cold sweat (= for example, through fear).
Scientists think they are beginning to break through in the fight against cancer.
Demonstrators broke through the police cordon.
The sun broke through at last in the afternoon.
He had finally managed to break through her reserve.
The ship broke up on the rocks.
Their marriage has broken up.
The meeting broke up at eleven o'clock.
When do you break up for Christmas?
He was breaking up under the strain.
Woody Allen makes me just break up.
The thought of hurting her just breaks me up.
The ship was broken up for scrap metal.
Sentences can be broken up into clauses.
They decided to break up the partnership.
Police were called in to break up the fight.
She's just broken up with her boyfriend.
to break with tradition/old habits/the past
a coffee/lunch/tea break
Let's take a break.
a break for lunch
She worked all day without a break.
We stopped for a well-earned rest.
Let's take a break.
The drug brought a brief respite from the pain.
Take time out to relax by the pool.
This delay gives the party a breathing space in which to sort out its policies.
Come and see me at break.
a break in my daily routine
She wanted to take a career break in order to have children.
More news after the break.
We had a weekend break in New York.
a well-earned break
He needed to make a complete break with the past.
a break with tradition/convention (= a change from what is accepted, in sth such as art, behaviour, etc.)
a break in the weather (= a change from one type of weather to a different one)
a break in diplomatic relations
We could see the moon through a break in the clouds.
I got my lucky break when I won a 'Young Journalist of the Year' competition.
We've had a few bad breaks (= pieces of bad luck) along the way.
The X-ray showed there was no break in his leg.
It was her second break in the set.
break point (= a situation in which, if you win the next point, you win the game)
He's put together a magnificent break.
a 147 break (= the highest possible break in snooker )
Give the lad a break—it's only his second day on the job.
He suddenly leapt up and made a break for the door.
They decided to make a break for it (= to try and escape) that night.
The company just about broke even last year.
Luckily, a bush broke his fall.
She broke his heart when she called off the engagement.
It breaks my heart to see you like this.
He hardly needed to break sweat to reach the final.
The company expects to reach break-even next year.
a marital break-up
The organization broke loose from its sponsors.
He cut himself loose from his family.
The last time we moved house there were very few breakages.
Wrap it up carefully to protect against breakage.
a breakaway faction/group/section
a breakaway republic
a breakaway from his earlier singing style
a big/hearty/light breakfast
(especially BrE) a cooked breakfast
Do you want bacon and eggs for breakfast?
They were having breakfast when I arrived.
She doesn't eat much breakfast.
to be at/to reach breaking point
to be stretched to breaking point
to drive, etc. at breakneck speed
a mass breakout from a top security prison
a breakout hit/movie
a breakout session before the plenary
a breakout group on ethical issues
to make/achieve a breakthrough
a significant breakthrough in negotiations
a major breakthrough in cancer research
It was a breakthrough album for the band.
breakthrough technology/products
She put the baby to her breast.
breast cancer
breast milk
He cradled the child against his breast.
A row of medals was pinned to the breast of his coat.
breast feathers
The robin has a red breast.
chicken/turkey breasts
breast of lamb
a small-breasted/full-breasted woman
bare-breasted
the yellow-breasted male of the species
a troubled breast
As they breasted the ridge, they saw the valley and lake before them.
He strode into the ocean, breasting the waves.
His breath smelt of garlic.
bad breath (= that smells bad)
We had to stop for breath before we got to the top.
She was very short of breath (= had difficulty breathing).
to take a deep breath
He recited the whole poem in one breath.
a breath of suspicion/scandal
Hold your breath and count to ten.
He held his breath while the results were read out.
She said she'd do it this week, but don't hold your breath!
He praised my work and in the same breath told me I would have to leave.
We were out of breath after only five minutes.
'Rubbish!' he murmured under his breath.
My first view of the island from the air took my breath away.
She talks all the time and hardly stops to draw breath.
He was as kind a man as ever drew breath.
Save your breath—you'll never persuade her.
Breathable, waterproof clothing is essential for most outdoor sports.
Both drivers were breathalysed at the scene of the accident.
He breathed deeply before speaking again.
The air was so cold we could hardly breathe.
She was beginning to breathe more easily.
Most people don't realize that they are breathing polluted air.
He came up close, breathing alcohol fumes all over me.
'I'm over here,' she breathed.
Cotton clothing allows your skin to breathe.
Her performance breathed wit and charm.
You can rest easy—I'm not going to tell anyone.
He just lives and breathes football.
His illness is a result of breathing in paint fumes over many years.
Humans take in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide.
to take/have a breather
Tell me when you need a breather.
a five-minute breather
Her breathing became steady and she fell asleep.
Deep breathing exercises will help you relax.
Heavy (= loud) breathing was all I could hear.
He arrived breathless at the top of the stairs.
They maintained a breathless (= very fast) pace for half an hour.
the breathless excitement of seeing each other again
breathless with terror
the breathless heat of a summer afternoon
a breathtaking view of the mountains
The scene was one of breathtaking beauty.
He spoke with breathtaking arrogance.
a breathtakingly expensive diamond
a pair of breeches
riding breeches
Many animals breed only at certain times of the year.
The rabbits are bred for their long coats.
Nothing breeds success like success.
Fear of failure was bred into him at an early age.
Labradors and other large breeds of dog
a breed of cattle/sheep
rare breeds
He represents a new breed of politician.
Players as skilful as this are a rare breed.
a dog/horse/cattle, etc. breeder
the breeding of horses
the breeding season
a sign of good breeding
This area of the city has become a breeding ground for violent crime.
a sea breeze
The flowers were gently swaying in the breeze.
A light breeze was blowing.
It was a breeze.
We sat around in the bar, shooting the breeze.
She just breezed in and asked me to help.
He breezed through the tests.
It was a bright, breezy day.
the breezy east coast
You're very bright and breezy today!
'Hi folks,' he said breezily.
a brief visit/meeting/conversation
a brief pause/silence
Mozart's life was brief.
a brief description/summary/account
Please be brief (= say what you want to say quickly).
a brief skirt
In brief, the meeting was a disaster.
Now the rest of the news in brief.
It wasn't part of his brief to speak to the press.
I was given the brief of reorganizing the department.
to stick to your brief (= to only do what you are asked to do)
to prepare/produce a brief for sb
I want to see my brief.
Officials are pushing for this target to be included in the next presidential brief.
I hold no brief for either side in this war.
I expect to be kept fully briefed at all times.
The officer briefed her on what to expect.
He had spoken to Emma only briefly.
Briefly, the argument is as follows…
Let me tell you briefly what happened.
Let us pray, brethren.
We should do all we can to help our less fortunate brethren.
The report is a masterpiece of brevity.
the brevity of human life
This beer is brewed in the Czech Republic.
freshly brewed coffee
Always let tea brew for a few minutes.
Whose turn is it to brew up?
I thought I'd try the local brew.
home brew (= beer made at home)
I'll make a fresh brew.
Let's have a brew.
The movie is a potent brew of adventure, sex and comedy.
His music is a heady brew (= a powerful mixture) of heavy metal and punk.
We always have a brew-up at 11 o'clock.
She was arrested on bribery charges.
allegations of bribery and corruption
It was alleged that he had taken bribes while in office.
She had been offered a $50 000 bribe to drop the charges.
They bribed the guards with cigarettes.
She was bribed into handing over secret information.
She bribed him to sign the certificate.
He managed to bribe his way onto the ship.
market stalls selling cheap bric-a-brac
The school is built of brick.
a pile of bricks
a brick wall
She was like a cat on hot bricks before her driving test.
Disappointment hit her like a ton of bricks.
They came down on him like a ton of bricks (= criticized him very severely).
The windows had been bricked up.
People invested in bricks and mortar.
They translated a bricks and mortar to the Web.
bricks-and-mortar businesses
(NAmE also ) brick-and-mortar businesses
Plaster had fallen away in places, exposing the brickwork.
a bridal gown
the bridal party (= the bride and the bridegroom and the people helping them at their wedding, sometimes used to refer only to the bride and those helping her)
a bridal suite (= a set of rooms in a hotel for a couple who have just got married)
(NAmE) a bridal shower (= a party for a woman who will get married soon)
a toast to the bride and groom
He introduced his new bride.
My sister is obsessed with every little detail of her wedding—she's turned into a complete bridezilla!
We crossed the bridge over the River Windrush.
Cultural exchanges are a way of building bridges between countries.
The valley was originally bridged by the Romans.
A plank of wood bridged the stream.
She bridled at the suggestion that she was lying.
a press briefing
Captain Trent gave his men a full briefing.
a briefing session/paper
a pair of briefs
the anti-smoking brigade
Brigadier Michael Swift
bright light/sunshine
a bright room
Her eyes were bright with tears.
a bright morning (= with the sun shining)
I like bright colours.
a bright yellow dress
Jack's face turned bright red.
The sky was a brilliant blue.
His eyes were a vivid green.
The room was decorated in vibrant blues and greens.
His eyes were bright and excited.
She gave me a bright smile.
Why are you so bright and cheerful today?
His face was bright with excitement.
the brightest pupil in the class
Do you have any bright ideas (= clever ideas)?
This young musician has a bright future.
Prospects for the coming year look bright.
a bright start to the week
a brightly lit room
'Hi!' she called brightly.
You're up bright and early today!
Although he grew up in the country, he's always had a taste for the bright lights.
The stars were shining bright.
In the distance, the sky was beginning to brighten.
a shampoo to brighten and condition your hair
Her eyes brightened.
He brightened up at their words of encouragement.
A smile brightened her face.
A personal letter will usually brighten up a person's day.
Fresh flowers will brighten up any room in the house.
According to the forecast, it should brighten up later.
What a brilliant idea!
a brilliant performance/invention
a brilliant career
The play was a brilliant success.
a brilliant young scientist
She has one of the most brilliant minds in the country.
brilliant sunshine
brilliant blue eyes
'How was it?' 'Brilliant!'
Thanks. You've been brilliant (= very helpful).
The plan worked brilliantly.
It was brilliantly sunny.
two wine glasses, filled to the brim
a wide-brimmed hat
Tears brimmed in her eyes.
Her eyes brimmed with tears.
The team were brimming with confidence before the game.
(figurative) Her heart was brimming over with happiness.
She's certainly brimful of energy.
a jug brimful of cream
Don't forget to bring your books with you.
She brought her boyfriend to the party.
Bring a present for Helen.
Bring Helen a present.
His writing brings him $10 000 a year.
The team's new manager brings ten years' experience to the job.
The revolution brought many changes.
The news brought tears to his eyes (= made him cry).
Retirement usually brings with it a massive drop in income.
to bring a meeting to an end
Bring the water to the boil.
The article brought her into conflict with the authorities.
Hello Simon! What brings you here?
The judge brought his hammer down on the table.
Her cries brought the neighbours running (= made them run to her).
to bring a charge/a legal action/an accusation against sb
She could not bring herself to tell him the news.
What brought about the change in his attitude?
Childhood obesity can cause / lead to long-term health problems.
Changes in lifestyle and diet over the last twenty years have caused / led to / resulted in a sharp increase in childhood obesity.
Several factors, including changes in diet and lifestyle, have contributed to the increase in childhood obesity.
Research suggests that fast food and soft drinks directly contribute to childhood obesity.
Genetics, lifestyle and diet are all important factors in cases of childhood obesity.
Even small changes in lifestyle and diet can bring about significant weight loss.
Please bring back all library books by the end of the week.
He brought me back (= gave me a ride home) in his car.
The photographs brought back many pleasant memories.
Most people are against bringing back the death penalty.
What did you bring the kids back from Italy?
I brought a T-shirt back for Mark.
The matter will be brought before the committee.
He was brought before the court and found guilty.
The scandal may bring down the government.
He was brought down in the penalty area.
We aim to bring down prices on all our computers.
The pilot managed to bring the plane down in a field.
Twelve enemy fighters had been brought down.
He brought down the bear with a single shot.
She brought forth a son.
trees bringing forth fruit
The meeting has been brought forward from 10 May to 3 May.
Please bring the matter forward at the next meeting.
A credit balance of $50 was brought forward from his September account.
Local residents were angry at not being brought in on (= asked for their opinion about) the new housing proposal.
Experts were brought in to advise the government.
Two men were brought in for questioning.
They want to bring in a bill to limit arms exports.
We need to bring in a lot more new business.
The jury brought in a verdict of guilty.
His freelance work brings him in about $20 000 a year.
How much does she bring in now?
It was a difficult task but we brought it off.
The goalie brought off a superb save.
He was suffering from stress brought on by overwork.
I have no sympathy—you brought it all on yourself.
She's a shy girl who needs friends to bring her out of herself.
A crisis brings out the best in her.
That dress really brings out the colour of your eyes.
The band have just brought out their second album.
The heat brought him out in a rash.
Bring the family round one evening. We'd love to meet them.
He didn't like the plan at first, but we managed to bring him round.
The loss of their son brought the two of them together.
She brought up five children.
He was brought up by his aunt.
a well/badly brought up child
They were brought up to (= taught as children to) respect authority.
I was brought up a Catholic.
He was brought up on a charge of drunken driving.
Bring it up at the meeting.
to bring up your lunch
Click with the right mouse button to bring up a new menu.
Working in the slums brought her up against the realities of poverty.
His sudden decision to retire brought down the curtain on a distinguished career.
Pressure can bring out the worst in people.
The new teacher really brought French to life for us.
Flowers can bring a dull room back to life.
Britain must be brought into line with the rest of Europe on taxes.
The television pictures brought home to us the full horror of the attack.
Unemployment brings great difficulties in its train.
They are hoping to bring the new legislation into force before the end of the year.
The strikes brought the industry to its knees.
These facts have only just been brought to light.
What Hislop brought to the party was real commitment and energy.
This technology is bang up to date (= completely modern).
up-to-date clothes
up-to-date equipment
We are keeping up to date with the latest developments.
up-to-date records
She brought him up to date with what had happened.
She couldn't call to mind where she had seen him before.
The painting brings to mind some of Picasso's early works.
It took two hours to bring the fire under control.
Please keep your dog under control!
The recommendations will soon be put into effect.
He needed to be taken down a peg or two.
This case brings into question the whole purpose of the law.
on the brink of collapse/war/death/disaster
Scientists are on the brink of making a major new discovery.
He's pulled the company back from the brink (= he has saved it from disaster).
the brink of the precipice
The country is teetering on the brink of civil war.
a brisk walk
to set off at a brisk pace
Ice-cream vendors were doing a brisk trade (= selling a lot of ice cream).
His tone became brisk and businesslike.
a brisk wind/breeze
the bristles on his chin
His lies made her bristle with rage.
The whole subject bristles with problems.
a bristly chin/moustache
She's British.
The British have a very odd sense of humour.
The survivors of the avalanche included 12 Britons.
the ancient Britons
her Britannic Majesty (= the Queen)
the British Government
He was born in France but his parents are British.
British-based/British-born/British-made
the ancient Britons
the first Briton to walk in space
brittle bones/nails
a brittle temperament
a brittle laugh
Thanks, bro!
She was dreading having to broach the subject of money to her father.
a broad street/avenue/river
broad shoulders
He is tall, broad and muscular.
a broad smile/grin (= one in which your mouth is stretched very wide because you are very pleased or amused)
two metres broad and one metre high
a broad range of products
a broad spectrum of interests
There is broad support for the government's policies.
She took a broad view of the duties of being a teacher (= she believed her duties included a wide range of things).
the broad outline of a proposal
The negotiators were in broad agreement on the main issues.
She's a feminist, in the broadest sense of the word.
In broad terms, the paper argues that each country should develop its own policy.
a broad expanse of water
The movie mixes broad humor with romance.
a broad-brush approach
plans to provide rural areas with fast broadband
The concert will be broadcast live (= at the same time as it takes place) tomorrow evening.
They began broadcasting in 1922.
I don't like to broadcast the fact that my father owns the company.
(BrE) a party political broadcast (= for example, before an election)
We watched a live broadcast of the speech (= one shown at the same time as the speech was made).
to work in broadcasting
the British Broadcasting Corporation (= the BBC)
Her smile broadened.
a promise to broaden access to higher education
The party needs to broaden its appeal to voters.
Few would disagree that travel broadens the mind (= helps you to understand other people's customs, etc.).
Spending a year working in the city helped to broaden his horizons.
Broadly speaking, I agree with you.
broadly similar/comparable/equivalent/consistent
The broadscale cutting down of trees is damaging the environment.
The prime minister fired a broadside at his critics.
The car skidded and crashed broadside into another car.
(BrE) The boat swung broadside on to the current of the river.
The driver ran a stop light and broadsided the truck.
a Broadway musical
The play opened on Broadway in 2013.
a travel brochure
How's it going, my broer?
a pair of brogues
broiled chicken
They lay broiling in the sun.
I'm always broke by the end of the month.
During the recession thousands of small businesses went broke (= had to stop doing business).
flat/stony broke (= completely broke)
a broken window/plate
a broken leg/arm
pieces of broken glass
How did this dish get broken?
The TV's broken.
a broken marriage/engagement
a night of broken sleep
a single broken white line across the road
He was a broken man after the failure of his business.
to speak in broken English
an area of broken, rocky ground
No one ever died of a broken heart.
He was broken-hearted when his wife died.
She comes from a broken home.
a broken-down old car/horse
an insurance broker
a peace plan brokered by the UN
a brokerage firm/house
bronchial pneumonia
He was suffering from chronic bronchitis.
a bronchitic cough
a bucking bronco in the rodeo
a bronze statue
a figure cast in bronze
bronze skin
an Olympic bronze medal winner
She won (a) bronze at the Olympics.
She's an Olympic bronze medallist.
You're not still brooding over what he said, are you?
I reached the age of 27 and suddenly started to feel broody.
a broody hen
dark, brooding eyes
a brooding silence
Ireland's brooding landscape
The tone in his voice brooked no argument.
I couldn't afford more than a broom cupboard to set up office in.
Warner Bros.
chicken broth
We're brothers.
He's my brother.
an older/younger brother
a twin brother
Does she have any brothers and sisters?
Edward was the youngest of the Kennedy brothers.
He was like a brother to me (= very close).
We must work together, brothers!
He was greatly respected by his brother officers.
We must support our weaker brethren.
Brother Luke
The Brethren meet regularly for prayer.
Oh brother!
to live in peace and brotherhood
the ties of brotherhood
brotherly love/advice
He gave her a brotherly kiss on the cheek.
The nurse mopped his fevered brow.
Her brow furrowed in concentration.
One dark brow rose in surprise.
The path disappeared over the brow of the hill.
They were browbeaten into accepting the offer.
brown eyes
brown bread
dark brown shoe polish
a package wrapped in brown paper
(BrE) I don't go brown very easily.
After the summer in Spain, the children were brown as berries.
leaves of various shades of brown
Brown doesn't (= brown clothes do not) suit you.
Heat the butter until it browns.
The grass was browning in patches.
Brown the onions before adding the meat.
By now the passengers were getting browned off with the delay.
My kids have been brown-bagging it this week.
a brownfield site
a fudge brownie
to join the Brownies
You can't see in this light, but my new coat is a sort of brownish colour.
New York brownstones
You are welcome to come in and browse.
She browsed the shelves for something interesting to read.
I found the article while I was browsing through some old magazines.
The gift shop is well worth a browse.
a web browser
Brrr, it's freezing here.
to be covered in bruises
cuts and bruises
He injured his knee playing hockey.
Three people were injured in the crash.
50 people were seriously wounded in the attack.
Did you hurt yourself?
Don't strain your eyes by reading in poor light.
Strawberries bruise easily.
She had slipped and badly bruised her face.
They had been badly bruised by the defeat.
He suffered badly bruised ribs in the crash.
bruised fruit
a bruised ego
She suffered severe bruising, but no bones were broken.
internal bruising
a bruising meeting/experience
This rumour has been bruited about for years.
a Brummie accent
a first course of bruschetta
a paintbrush
a hairbrush
a toothbrush
brush strokes (= the marks left by a brush when painting)
a dustpan and brush
Apply the paint with a fine brush.
to give your teeth a good brush
the brush of his lips on her cheek
She had a nasty brush with her boss this morning.
In his job he's had frequent brushes with death.
a brush with the law
a brush fire
to brush your hair/teeth/shoes
A tiled floor is easy to brush clean.
Brush the pastry with beaten egg.
Brush beaten egg over the pastry.
He brushed the dirt off his jacket.
She brushed the fly away.
She brushed past him.
His hand accidentally brushed against hers.
The leaves brushed her cheek.
He brushed her lips with his.
He brushed aside my fears.
to brush a coat/horse down
Mud brushes off easily when it is dry.
She brushed him off impatiently.
I must brush up on my Spanish before I go to Seville.
Paul asked Tara out to dinner but she gave him the brush-off.
The doctor spoke in a brusque tone.
'What's your name?' he asked brusquely.
a brutal attack/murder/rape/killing
With brutal honesty she told him she did not love him.
police brutality
the brutalities of war
He was brutally assaulted.
Let me be brutally frank about this.
soldiers brutalized by war
His father was a drunken brute.
You've forgotten my birthday again, you brute!
brute force/strength
the brute facts of inequality
produced to BS4353
That guy's full of BS.
(BrE) to be/have/do a BSc in Zoology
(BrE) Jill Ayres BSc
a BTEC Higher National Diploma in Public Service Studies
champagne bubbles
a bubble of oxygen
blowing bubbles into water through a straw
The children like to have bubbles in their bath.
a bubble of laughter/hope/enthusiasm
Economists warned of a stock-market bubble.
When the bubble finally burst, hundreds of people lost their jobs.
The water in the pan was beginning to bubble.
Add the white wine and let it bubble up.
I could hear the soup bubbling away.
A stream came bubbling between the stones.
She was bubbling over with excitement.
Laughter bubbled up inside him.
the anger that bubbled beneath the surface
Here are two records that are bubbling under.
This album is pure bubblegum pop.
Virgin's buccaneering founder, Richard Branson
They cost ten bucks.
We're talking big bucks (= a lot of money) here.
a herd of buck
It was my decision. The buck stops here (= nobody else can be blamed).
I was tempted to pass the buck (= make sb else responsible).
The boat bucked and heaved beneath them.
One or two companies have managed to buck the trend of the recession.
He admired her willingness to buck the system (= oppose authority or rules).
Buck up, kid! It's not the end of the game.
The good news bucked us all up.
We stayed at Tom's place. It isn't exactly Buck House, but it's comfortable enough.
a plastic bucket
(BrE) They were playing on the beach with their buckets and spades.
two buckets/bucketfuls of water
They used to drink tea by the bucket/bucketful (= in large quantities).
To succeed in show business, you need buckets of confidence.
We wept buckets.
He was sweating buckets by the end of the race.
The rain was coming down in buckets (= it was raining very heavily).
It's bucketing down.
Travelling to India has been on my bucket list for years.
Buckingham Palace refused to comment.
She buckled her belt.
He buckled on his sword.
These shoes buckle at the side.
The steel frames began to buckle under the strain.
(figurative) A weaker man would have buckled under the pressure.
The crash buckled the front of my car.
I'd better buckle down to those reports.
the first buds appearing in spring
The tree is in bud already.
Listen, bud, enough of the wisecracks, OK?
a devout Buddhist
a Buddhist monk/temple
an old college buddy of mine
'Where to, buddy?' the driver asked.
The school uses a buddy system to pair newcomers with older students.
You and your neighbour might want to buddy up to make the trip more enjoyable.
a budding artist/writer
our budding romance
She pushed at the door but it wouldn't budge.
The dog refused to budge.
I heaved with all my might but still couldn't budge it.
He won't budge an inch on the issue.
He was not to be budged on the issue.
Budge up a bit!
a monthly/an annual/a family budget
the education/defence budget (= the amount of money that can be spent on this)
an advertising budget of $2 million
a big-budget movie
We decorated the house on a tight budget (= without much money to spend).
The work was finished on time and within budget (= did not cost more money than was planned).
They went over budget (= spent too much money).
budget cuts
tax cuts in this year's budget
a budget deficit (= when the government spends more money than it earns)
I've budgeted for two new members of staff.
Ten million francs has been budgeted for the project.
The project has been budgeted at ten million francs.
a budget flight/hotel
budgetary control/policies/reform
This book deals with the social, economic and political issues of the period.
She had got into financial difficulties.
Tokyo is a major financial centre.
closer European monetary union
an opera buff
a buff envelope
He buffed up to take the role of the commando captain.
The team will have to buff up their tarnished image.
Support from family and friends acts as a buffer against stress.
She often had to act as a buffer between father and son.
a buffer state (= a small country between two powerful states that helps keep peace between them)
a buffer zone (= an area of land between two opposing armies or countries)
to buffer the effects of stress on health
They tried to buffer themselves against problems and uncertainties.
a buffet lunch/supper
Dinner will be a cold buffet, not a sit-down meal.
to be buffeted by the wind
(figurative, formal) The nation had been buffeted by a wave of strikes.
a flu bug
There's a stomach bug going round (= people are catching it from each other).
I picked up a bug in the office.
the travel bug
She was never interested in fitness before but now she's been bitten by the bug.
They bugged her hotel room.
They were bugging his telephone conversations.
a bugging device
Stop bugging me!
It's something that's been bugging me a lot recently.
The song just bugs the hell out of me.
Their eyes were bugging out of their heads when they saw it.
We should bug out now before it's too late.
Susan started to bug out when she heard a noise in the bushes.
Inflation is the government's main bugbear.
Come here, you little bugger!
You stupid bugger! You could have run me over!
Poor bugger! His wife left him last week.
He's a tough old bugger.
This door's a bugger to open.
Question 6 is a real bugger.
Bugger! I've left my keys at home.
Bugger it! I've burnt the toast.
Oh, bugger the cost! Let's get it anyway.
I think I've buggered the computer.
Bugger me! Did you see that?
Stop buggering about and get back to work.
I'm sick of being buggered about by the company.
Bugger off and leave me alone.
Where is everyone? They've all buggered off.
I buggered up the exam.
Sorry for buggering up your plans.
There's bugger all on TV tonight.
Well, she was bugger all help (= no help at all).
Oh no, the TV's buggered.
Well, I'll be buggered! Look who's here.
'What's this meeting all about?' 'I'm buggered if I know.'
Well I'm buggered if I'm going to help her after what she said to me.
a garden/golf buggy
They have permission to build 200 new houses.
Robins build nests almost anywhere.
They had a house built for them.
David built us a shed in the back yard.
She's built a new career for herself.
We want to build a better life.
This information will help us build a picture of his attacker.
The tension and excitement built gradually all day.
The story is built around a group of high school dropouts.
We're having new wardrobes built in.
The pipes were built into the concrete.
A certain amount of flexibility is built into the system.
This study builds on earlier work.
an argument built on sound logic
They've built an extension on.
The new wing was built onto the hospital last year.
All the pressure built up and he was off work for weeks with stress.
The music builds up to a rousing climax.
Build yourself up to peak performance on the day of the exam.
The play was built up to be a masterpiece but I found it very disappointing.
You need more protein to build you up.
She's built up a very successful business.
These finds help us build up a picture of life in the Middle Ages.
I am anxious not to build up false hopes (= to encourage people to hope for too much).
a man of average build
a steady build-up of traffic in the evenings
the build-up to the President's visit
The media have given the show a huge build-up.
a newly built station
American-built cars
a shipbuilder
a confidence builder
Single words are the building blocks of language.
built-in cupboards
to reduce the speed limit in built-up areas
business contacts/affairs/interests
a business investment
It's been a pleasure to do business with you.
She has set up in business as a hairdresser.
When he left school, he went into business with his brother.
She works in the computer business.
Is the trip to Rome business or pleasure?
a business lunch
He's away on business.
Business was bad.
Business was booming.
Her job was to drum up (= increase) business.
How's business?
to have/start/run a business
business premises
She works in the family business.
They've got a small catering business.
It is the business of the police to protect the community.
I shall make it my business to find out who is responsible.
My private life is none of your business (= does not concern you).
It's no business of yours who I invite to the party.
the main business of the meeting
He has some unfinished business to deal with.
That plane crash was a terrible business.
I found the whole business very depressing.
The business of the missing tickets hasn't been sorted out.
We're grateful for your business.
streets filled with people going about their daily business
You have no business being here.
I've been working like nobody's business to get it finished in time.
I'm not in the business of getting other people to do my work for me.
The new regulations will put many small businesses out of business.
Some travel companies will probably go out of business this summer.
He has the look of a man who means business.
'What are you reading?' 'Mind your own business!'
I was just sitting there, minding my own business, when a man started shouting at me.
taxis plying for hire outside the theatre
a halogen bulb
a room lit by bare bulbs (= with no decorative cover)
a bulbous red nose
Her pockets were bulging with presents.
a bulging briefcase
His eyes bulged.
the bulge of a gun in his pocket
That skirt's too tight. It shows all your bulges.
After the war there was a bulge in the birth rate.
bulging eyes
The bulk of the population lives in cities.
Despite its bulk and weight, the car is extremely fast.
a bulk order (= one for a large number of similar items)
bulk buying (= buying in large amounts, often at a reduced price)
It's cheaper to buy in bulk.
She heaved her bulk out of the chair.
Bulky items will be collected separately.
The bulky figure of Inspector Jones appeared at the door.
a bull neck (= a short thick neck like a bull's)
a papal bull
That's a load of bull!
The trees are being bulldozed to make way for a new superstore.
Rooney bulldozed through to score.
They bulldozed the tax through Parliament.
He bulldozed his way to victory.
They bulldozed him into selling.
bullet wounds
There were bullet holes in the door.
He was killed by a bullet in the head.
a bulletin on the President's health
a bulletproof vest
the school bully
My son is being bullied at school.
I won't be bullied into signing anything.
Bullying is a problem in many schools.
He refused to give in to bullying and threats.
bullying behaviour/tactics
He's got a job in New York? Well, bully for him!
gold bullion
in a bullish mood
a bullish market
The team's bullpen is solid this year.
He scored a bullseye.
That's just bullshit.
She's just bullshitting.
Don't try to bullshit me!
The group have frequently used bully-boy tactics.
a bulwark against extremism
a beach bum (= sb who spends all their time on the beach, without having a job)
He's nothing but a no-good bum!
They're not bothered about attracting the right audience—they just want bums on seats.
He was soon given the bum's rush from the club.
Can I bum a cigarette off you?
He bummed around the world for a year.
He didn't play one bum note.
a bum deal (= a situation where you do not get what you deserve or have paid for)
I could hear him bumbling around in the kitchen.
He threw away my letter, thinking it was just more election bumf.
It's a real bummer that she can't come.
In the dark I bumped into a chair.
The car bumped against the kerb.
Be careful not to bump your head on the beam when you stand up.
The jeep bumped along the dirt track.
The car bumped its way slowly down the drive.
The airline apologized and bumped us up to first class.
If you are bumped off an airline because of overbooking, you are entitled to compensation.
The coach told him he had been bumped from the crew.
We kept bumping up against inflexible regulations.
He fell to the ground with a bump.
We could hear loud bumps from upstairs where the children were playing.
She was covered in bumps and bruises.
How did you get that bump on your forehead?
a bump in the road
We gave her the bumps.
a bumper sticker (= a sign that people stick on the bumper of their cars with a message on it)
The cars were bumper to bumper on the road to the coast (= so close that their bumpers were nearly touching).
a bumper issue (= of a magazine, etc.)
a bumper crop/harvest/season/year
a bumpy road/track
bumpy ground
a bumpy ride/flight
an iced bun
a hamburger bun
She wore her hair in a bun.
a bunch of bananas, grapes, etc.
a bunch of keys
She picked me a bunch of flowers.
I have a whole bunch of stuff to do this morning.
The people that I work with are a great bunch.
She wore her hair in bunches.
His muscles bunched under his shirt.
Her skirt had bunched up round her waist.
His forehead was bunched in a frown.
The sheep bunched together as soon as they saw the dog.
They raised the level of the bunds along the river.
Farmers built bunds along their fields to retain water.
The bund is used to take cattle to the other side of the reserve.
a bundle of rags/papers/firewood
She held her little bundle (= her baby) tightly in her arms.
a bundle of ideas
a bundle of graphics packages for your PC
He wasn't exactly a bundle of laughs (= a happy person to be with) last night.
That car must have cost a bundle.
They bundled her into the back of a car.
He was bundled off to boarding school.
We bundled out onto the street.
A further nine applications are bundled with the system.
He bundled up the dirty clothes and stuffed them into the bag.
The papers were all bundled together, ready to be thrown out.
I bundled her up in a blanket and gave her a hot drink.
Here are the latest pictures of our little bundle of joy.
Bung this in the bin, can you?
My nose is all bunged up.
The drains are bunged up with dead leaves.
to go bungee jumping
to do a bungee jump
They bungled the job.
a bungled robbery/raid/attempt
bungling incompetence
Their pay was late because of a computer bungle.
a concrete/underground/secret bunker
a coal bunker
gym/beach/snow bunnies
an angry bunny
She wasn't a happy bunny at all.
a corn/reed/snow bunting
Buoyed by their win yesterday the team feel confident of further success.
What's he burbling about?
to bear/carry/ease/reduce/share the burden
The main burden of caring for old people falls on the state.
the heavy tax burden on working people
I don't want to become a burden to my children when I'm old.
They have burdened themselves with a high mortgage.
I don't want to burden you with my worries.
to be burdened by high taxation
She got off the bus, burdened with two heavy suitcases.
bureaucratic power/control/procedures/organizations
The report revealed a great deal of bureaucratic inefficiency.
a burgeoning population
burgeoning demand
a spicy beanburger
The youth was charged with three counts of burglary.
a rise in the number of burglaries committed in the area
We were burgled while we were away (= our house was burgled).
The house next door was burgled.
a burgundy leather briefcase
a burial place/mound/site
Her body was sent home for burial.
His family insisted he should be given a proper burial.
He was buried in Highgate Cemetery.
(figurative) Their ambitions were finally dead and buried.
She's 85 and has buried three husbands.
buried treasure
The dog had buried its bone in the garden.
The house was buried under ten feet of snow.
The miners were buried alive when the tunnel collapsed.
Your letter got buried under a pile of papers.
He buried his face in his hands and wept.
She had learnt to bury her feelings.
He walked slowly, his hands buried in his pockets.
She always has her head buried in a book.
Since she left, he's buried himself in his work.
She buried herself in the country to write a book.
a burlesque of literary life
A welcoming fire was burning in the fireplace.
Fires were burning all over the city.
By nightfall the whole city was burning.
Two children were rescued from the burning car.
The smell of burning rubber filled the air.
to burn waste paper/dead leaves
All his belongings were burnt in the fire.
The cigarette burned a hole in the carpet.
The house was burnt to the ground (= completely destroyed).
The house burned to the ground.
Ten people burned to death in the hotel fire.
His greatest fear is of being burnt alive.
a furnace that burns gas/oil/coke
(figurative) Some people burn calories (= use food to produce energy) faster than others.
Which fuel burns most efficiently?
I can smell something burning in the kitchen.
Sorry—I burnt the toast.
My skin burns easily (= in the sun).
I got badly burned by the sun yesterday.
The soup's hot. Don't burn your mouth.
I burned myself on the stove.
She burned all his letters.
The house burned down in 1995.
The bodies had been charred beyond recognition.
I scorched my dress when I was ironing it.
He singed his hair as he tried to light his cigarette.
Your forehead's burning. Have you got a fever?
Her cheeks burned with embarrassment.
Lights were burning upstairs, but no one answered the door.
to be burning with rage/ambition/love
He was burning to go climbing again.
The car was burning down the road.
So you did it just to burn me?
He got his fingers badly burnt dabbling in the stock market.
'I bumped into your ex-wife last night.' 'I thought I could feel my ears burning!'
Half the candle had burnt away.
The clothing on his back got burnt away in the fire.
The house burned down in 1895.
Burn off the old paint before repainting the door.
This workout helps you to burn off fat and tone muscles.
The fire had burnt (itself) out before the fire engines arrived.
The clutch has burnt out.
If he doesn't stop working so hard, he'll burn himself out.
By the age of 25 she was completely burned out and retired from the sport.
The hotel was completely burnt out.
the burnt-out wreck of a car
The spacecraft burned up as it entered the earth's atmosphere.
You're burning up—have you seen a doctor?
The way he treats me really burns me up.
The fire burned up 1 500 acres of farmland.
Which burns up more calories—swimming or cycling?
minor/severe/third-degree burns
cigarette burns on the furniture
burn marks
a specialist burns unit in a hospital
a wood burner
Anything that keeps education on the front burner is good.
a burning desire to win
He's always had a burning ambition to start his own business.
the burning sun
her burning face
burnished gold/copper
burnt toast
Your hand looks badly burnt.
a burnt-out car
I'm feeling burnt-out at work—I need a holiday.
She speaks with a soft West Country burr.
Earthworms burrow deep into the soil.
The rodent burrowed its way into the sand.
He burrowed down beneath the blankets.
She burrowed her face into his chest.
She burrowed in the drawer for a pair of socks.
He was afraid that they would burrow into his past.
That balloon will burst if you blow it up any more.
The dam burst under the weight of water.
Shells were bursting (= exploding) all around us.
(figurative) He felt he would burst with anger and shame.
a burst pipe
Don't burst that balloon!
The river burst its banks and flooded nearby towns.
He burst into the room without knocking.
The sun burst through the clouds.
The words burst from her in an angry rush.
The roads are bursting with cars.
to be bursting with ideas/enthusiasm/pride
The hall was filled to bursting point.
The hall was full to bursting.
(informal) I'm bursting (for a pee)!(= I need to use the toilet right now.)
The door burst open.
Firefighters burst the door open and rescued them.
He burst in on the meeting.
The aircraft crashed and burst into flames (= suddenly began to burn).
She burst into tears (= suddenly began to cry).
A major new talent has burst onto the literary scene.
'For heavens' sake!' he burst out.
Karen burst out laughing.
a sudden burst of activity/energy/anger/enthusiasm
Her breath was coming in short bursts.
I tend to work in bursts.
spontaneous bursts of applause
a burst in a water pipe
frequent bursts of machine-gun fire
a bursty connection
bursty Internet traffic
Shall we walk or go by bus?
A regular bus service connects the train station with the town centre.
a bus company/driver
a school bus
Plenty of my co-workers are satisfied to throw everyone else under the bus as long as they keep their wages.
We were bussed from the airport to our hotel.
(BrE, humorous) I'm not old enough for my bus pass yet!
a rose bush
holly bushes
a bushy beard/tail
bushy eyebrows
We had to bushwhack through undergrowth.
Are you busy tonight?
I'm afraid the doctor is busy at the moment. Can he call you back?
I'll be too busy to come to the meeting.
The principal is a very busy woman.
She was always too busy to listen.
a very busy life
Kate's busy with her homework.
James is busy practising for the school concert.
Let's get busy with the clearing up.
a busy main road
Victoria is one of London's busiest stations.
Have you had a busy day?
This is one of the busiest times of the year for the department.
The line is busy—I'll try again later.
the busy signal
He was busily engaged repairing his bike.
Since she retired she's kept herself very busy.
She busied herself with the preparations for the party.
While we talked, Bill busied himself fixing lunch.
a master's degree in business administration (= an MBA)
I always fly business class.
a degree in business studies
She adopted a brisk businesslike tone.
I should have got a better price for the car, but I'm not much of a businessman.
I bust my camera.
The lights are busted.
Come out, or I'll bust the door down!
He's been busted for drugs.
They bust up after five years of marriage.
It was his drinking that bust up his marriage.
What is your bust measurement, Madam?
a boom and bust cycle
a drug bust
As a show it was a bust.
My watch is bust.
We're bust!
We lost our money when the travel company went bust.
Sue and Tony had a bust-up and aren't speaking to each other.
the final bust-up of their marriage
You are so busted!
Get lost, buster!
crime-busters
She bustled around in the kitchen.
The nurse bustled us out of the room.
the hustle and bustle of city life
a bustling city
The market was bustling with life.
He's an interfering old busybody!
I got it wrong. It wasn't the red one but the blue one.
His mother won't be there, but his father might.
It isn't that he lied exactly, but he does tend to exaggerate.
I'd asked everybody but only two people came.
By the end of the day we were tired but happy.
I'm sorry but I can't stay any longer.
But that's not possible!
'Here's the money I owe you.' 'But that's not right—it was only £10.'
I had no choice but to sign the contract.
Nothing, but nothing would make him change his mind.
She never passed her old home but she thought of the happy years she had spent there (= she always thought of them).
He would have played but for a knee injury.
The square was empty but for a couple of cabs.
He might agree. But then again he might have a completely different opinion.
She speaks very good Italian. But then she did live in Rome for a year (= so it's not surprising).
What could he do but forgive her?(= that was the only thing possible)
We've had nothing but trouble with this car.
The problem is anything but easy.
Who but Rosa could think of something like that?
Everyone was there but him.
I came last but one in the race (= I wasn't last but next to last).
Take the first turning but one (= not the first one but the one after it).
I don't think we'll manage it. Still, we can but try.
There were a lot of famous people there: Lady Gaga and Hugh Jackman, to name but two.
'Let us have no buts,' he said firmly. 'You are coming.'
With so many ifs and buts, it is easier to wait and see.
She was early, but then again, she always is.
'So you might accept their offer?' 'Yes, then again I might not.'
He owns the butcher's in the main street.
The script was good, but those guys butchered it.
How can I explain if you keep butting in?
'Is that normal?' Josie butted in.
I didn't ask you to butt in on my private business.
Butt out, Neil! This is none of your business.
a rifle butt
a water butt
Get off your butt and do some work!
Get your butt over here!(= Come here!)
a butt from his head
Fry the onions in butter.
She buttered four thick slices of bread.
butterflies and moths
She's like a butterfly. She flits in and out of people's lives.
She was third in the 200m butterfly (= a swimming race).
a jam butty
(BrE) to do up/undo your buttons
(NAmE) to button/unbutton your buttons
to sew on a button
shirt buttons
the play/stop/rewind button
Adam pressed a button and waited for the lift.
Choose 'printer' from the menu and click with the right mouse button.
The windows slide down at the touch of a button.
Click on the back button to go back to the previous screen.
We arrived at 4 o'clock on the button.
You're on the button there!
a new satirical comedy show that pushes all the right buttons
I've known him for years, but I still don't know what pushes his buttons.
She hurriedly buttoned (up) her blouse.
The dress buttons (up) at the back.
The sharp increase in crime seems to buttress the argument for more police officers on the street.
Where did you buy that dress?
If you're thinking of getting a new car, now is a good time to buy.
I bought it from a friend for £10.
He bought me a new coat.
He bought a new coat for me.
I bought my car second-hand.
He gave his children the best education that money can buy.
Five pounds doesn't buy much nowadays.
He can't be bought (= he's too honest to accept money in this way).
Her fame was bought at the expense of her marriage.
You could say you were ill but I don't think they'd buy it (= accept the explanation).
She had never bought into the idea that to be attractive you have to be thin.
Developers are buying up all the land on the island.
That jacket was a really good buy.
Best buys this week are carrots and cabbages.
Computer games are a popular buy this Christmas.
If you want to make major changes you need buy-in from everyone in the organization.
You need to win people's buy-in.
Have you found a buyer for your house?
a management buyout
Bees buzzed lazily among the flowers.
The doorbell buzzed loudly.
My ears were buzzing (= were filled with a continuous sound).
New York buzzes from dawn to dusk.
My head was still buzzing after the day's events.
The place was buzzing with journalists.
The doctor buzzed for the next patient to come in.
I've been buzzing around town all day sorting out my trip.
Just buzz off and let me get on with my work.
the buzz of bees
The buzz of the Entryphone interrupted our conversation.
hums and buzzes from the amplifier
The buzz of conversation suddenly stopped when she came into the room.
a buzz of excitement/expectation
She gets a buzz out of her work.
Flying gives me a real buzz.
You can sense the creative buzz in the city.
I'll give you a buzz on Monday, OK?
a house by the river
The telephone is by the window.
Come and sit by me.
He was knocked down by a bus.
a play by Ibsen
Who's that book by?
I was frightened by the noise.
The house is heated by gas.
May I pay by credit card?
I will contact you by letter.
to travel by boat/bus/car/plane
to travel by air/land/sea
Switch it on by pressing this button.
They met by chance.
I did it by mistake.
The coroner's verdict was 'death by misadventure'.
Can you finish the work by five o'clock?
I'll have it done by tomorrow.
By this time next week we'll be in New York.
He ought to have arrived by now/by this time.
By the time (that) this letter reaches you I will have left the country.
He walked by me without speaking.
to travel by day/night
We had to work by candlelight.
The bullet missed him by two inches.
House prices went up by 10%.
It would be better by far (= much better) to…
By my watch it is two o'clock.
I could tell by the look on her face that something terrible had happened.
By law, you are a child until you are 18.
I took him by the hand.
She seized her by the hair.
Pick it up by the handle!
We rented the car by the day.
They're paid by the hour.
We only sell it by the metre.
They're improving day by day.
We'll do it bit by bit.
It was getting worse by the minute (= very fast).
The children came in two by two (= in groups of two).
The room measures fifteen feet by twenty feet.
6 multiplied by 2 equals 12.
6 divided by 2 equals 3.
He's German by birth.
They're both doctors by profession.
I swear by Almighty God…
Just drive by. Don't stop.
He hurried by without speaking to me.
Excuse me, I can't get by.
Time goes by so quickly.
I've put some money by for college fees.
I'll come by this evening and pick up the books.
By and by she met an old man with a beard.
By and large, I enjoyed my time at school.
Women generally earn less than men.
Generally speaking, jobs traditionally done by women are paid at a lower rate than those traditionally done by men.
In general / By and large, women do not earn as much as men.
Certain jobs, like nursing and cleaning, are still mainly carried out by women.
Senior management posts are predominantly held by men.
Most senior management posts tend to be held by men.
Women are, for the most part, still paid less than men.
Economic and social factors are, to a large extent, responsible for women being concentrated in low-paid jobs.
'Do you mind if I have a look?' 'By all means.'
Are you in love with him, by any chance?
I wouldn't go there by choice.
By comparison, expenditure on education increased last year.
By degrees their friendship grew into love.
He succeeded by dint of hard work.
The blame lies with the teachers and, by extension, with the Education Service.
The last of these reasons is by far the most important.
Amy is the smartest by far.
The fabric was painted by hand.
I've dialled the number so many times I know it by heart.
She's learnt the whole speech off by heart.
Come by here now!
The load was lifted by means of a crane.
I took your bag instead of mine by mistake.
She asked for you by name.
The principal knows all the students by name.
I only know her by name (= I have heard about her but I have not met her).
She is by no means an inexperienced teacher.
We haven't won yet, not by any means.
She could not, by any stretch of the imagination, be called beautiful.
painting by numbers
By popular demand, the play will run for another week.
Please reply by return of post.
a young actor by the name of Tom Rees
The penalty for failure will be high. But, by the same token, the rewards for success will be great.
She grabbed him by the scruff of the neck and threw him out.
By the way, I found that book you were looking for.
What's the time, by the way?
Oh by the way, if you see Jackie, tell her I'll call her this evening.
He's over by there.
The artist recently arrived in Paris from Bulgaria by way of Vienna.
She came to TV by way of drama school.
He received £600 by way of compensation from the company.
She rolled her eyes by way of an answer and left.
The news spread by word of mouth.
a by-product
a bystander
When burnt, plastic produces dangerous by-products.
One of the by-products of unemployment is an increase in crime.
The second half of the game was dull by comparison with the first.
The tallest buildings in London are small in comparison with New York's skyscrapers.
Because of other commitments I can only write my book in fits and starts.
She got the job by virtue of her greater experience.
She was accused of obtaining money under false pretences.
Thousands of small fish are thrown back into the sea as bycatch.
Bye! See you next week.
She waved bye-bye and got into the car.
Bye for now Dad!
heart bypass surgery
a triple bypass operation
A new road now bypasses the town.
a bygone age/era
innocent bystanders at the scene of the accident
Police have appealed for witnesses to the accident.
According to observers, the plane exploded shortly after take-off.
A crowd of onlookers gathered at the scene of the crash.
Police asked passers-by if they had witnessed the accident.
Three innocent bystanders were killed in the crossfire.
The name Chanel became a byword for elegance.
an organization of byzantine complexity
in the 19th c
(NAmE) a C19th church
c1890
add 2c. flour
'Cat' begins with (a) C/'C'.
She got (a) C/'C' in/for Physics.
C. Horn (= for example, on a map)
Water freezes at 0°C.
© Oxford University Press 2015
An employee who uses the C-word to a colleague will be suspended.
I hate it when people refer to cancer as the C-word.
Mr P Brown, c/o Ms M Jones
a cabaret act/singer/band
Do you like cabbage?
two cabbages
white/red cabbage
a log cabin
a cabinet meeting
(BrE) a cabinet minister
(BrE) the shadow Cabinet (= the most important members of the opposition party)
kitchen cabinets
a medicine cabinet
The china was displayed in a glass cabinet.
overhead/underground cables
a 10 000 volt cable
fibre-optic cable
We can receive up to 500 cable channels.
I had new clothes, a new hairstyle—the whole caboodle.
an arms cache
This page is cached.
They all cackled with delight.
a sewing/make-up caddy
He delivered his words in slow, measured cadences.
I managed to cadge some money off my dad.
This is the Cadillac of watches.
an emergency caesarean
The baby was born by caesarean section.
She had to have a caesarean.
a transport caff
a birdcage
Who's rattled his cage?
The dogs are caged (up) at night.
He paced the room like a caged animal.
Tony is very cagey about his family.
He cajoled me into agreeing to do the work.
I managed to cajole his address out of them.
'Please say yes,' she cajoled.
Cajun chicken/cuisine
a piece/slice of cake
to make/bake a cake
a chocolate cake
a birthday cake
(BrE) a cake tin (= for cooking a cake in)
(NAmE) a cake pan
potato cakes
Her shoes were caked with mud.
caked blood
a calculable risk
Use the formula to calculate the volume of the container.
Benefit is calculated on the basis of average weekly earnings.
You'll need to calculate how much time the assignment will take.
It has been calculated that at least 47 000 jobs were lost last year.
Conservationists calculate that hundreds of species could be lost in this area.
It is impossible to calculate what influence he had on her life.
a calculated insult
He took a calculated risk (= a risk that you decide is worth taking even though you know it might have bad results).
a cold and calculating killer
I never realized you could be so calculating.
Cathy did a rough calculation.
By my calculation(s), we made a profit of £20 000 last year.
Our guess was confirmed by calculation.
an act of cold calculation
a pocket calculator
a calendar for 2010
This is one of the biggest weeks in the racing calendar.
the Islamic calendar
I've torn a calf muscle.
a calibration error
He was impressed by the high calibre of applicants for the job.
The firm needs more people of your calibre.
They decided to call the baby Mark.
His name's Hiroshi but everyone calls him Hiro.
What do they call that new fabric?
They called their first daughter after her grandmother.
We call each other by our first names here.
I wouldn't call German an easy language.
Are you calling me a liar?
He was in the front room, or the lounge or whatever you want to call it.
I make it ten pounds forty-three you owe me. Let's call it ten pounds.
Would you call it blue or green?
He seemed to regard the whole thing as a joke.
You may find your illness hard to accept.
Who do you consider (to be) responsible for the accident?
He considers himself an expert.
They are considered a high-risk group.
Try to see things from her point of view.
How do you view your position within the company?
Call yourself a friend? So why won't you help me, then?
She's no right to call herself a feminist.
I thought I heard somebody calling.
She called out to her father for help.
He called out a warning from the kitchen.
Did somebody call my name?
'See you later!' she called.
Will you call the kids in for lunch?
Did you call?
to call the fire department/the police/a doctor/an ambulance
The doctor has been called to an urgent case.
I'll call a taxi for you.
I'll call you a taxi.
I'll call again later.
I called the office to tell them I'd be late.
My brother called me from Spain last night.
Were there any phone calls for me?
How do I make a local call?
I'll give you a call tonight.
I'll give you a ring tonight.
Several candidates were called for a second interview.
The ambassador was called back to London by the prime minister.
He felt called to the priesthood (= had a strong feeling that he must become a priest).
I'll call round and see you on my way home.
Let's call on John.
He was out when I called to see him.
to call a meeting/an election/a strike
to call heads/tails
Chess is a game that calls into play all your powers of concentration.
His honesty has never been called into question.
After forty years in politics I think it's time for me to call it a day (= to retire).
She's just gone out with old what-d'you-call-him.
This train calls at Didcot and Reading.
She was called away from the meeting to take an urgent phone call.
She said she'd call back.
I'm waiting for someone to call me back with a price.
I'll call for you at 7 o'clock.
The situation calls for prompt action.
'I've been promoted.' 'This calls for a celebration!'
They called for the immediate release of the hostages.
The opposition have called for him to resign.
His speech called forth an angry response.
Several people have called in sick today.
to call in a doctor/the police
Cars with serious faults have been called in by the manufacturers.
to call off a deal/trip/strike
They have called off their engagement (= decided not to get married).
The game was called off because of bad weather.
I now call upon the chairman to address the meeting.
I feel called upon (= feel that I ought) to warn you that…
to call out an engineer/a plumber/the troops
The smell of the sea called up memories of her childhood.
I called his address up on the computer.
She called up her last reserves of strength.
to get/have/receive a call from sb
to give sb/to make a call
Were there any calls for me while I was out?
I'll take (= answer) the call upstairs.
I left a message but he didn't return my call.
a local call
the distinctive call of the cuckoo
a call for help
The doctor has five calls to make this morning.
(old-fashioned) to pay a call on an old friend
calls for the minister to resign
calls for national unity
This is the last call for passengers travelling on British Airways flight 199 to Rome.
(formal) a call to arms (= a strong request to fight in the army, etc.)
There isn't a lot of call for small specialist shops nowadays.
She is a busy woman with many calls on her time.
the call of the sea/your homeland
It's your call!
a good/bad call
That's a tough call.
There was a disputed call in the second set.
The children always have first call on her time.
the call letters WNBC
a call-out charge
ambulance call-outs
to receive your call-up papers
His recent form has earned him a call-up to the England squad.
What's their son called?
I don't know anyone called Scott.
I've forgotten what the firm he works for is called.
What's it called again? Yeah, that's right. A router.
The caller hung up.
an anonymous caller
He realized that his calling was to preach the gospel.
a pair of callipers
a callous killer/attitude/act
a callous disregard for the feelings of others
calloused hands
a callow youth
It is important to keep calm in an emergency.
Try to remain calm.
Her voice was surprisingly calm.
The city is calm again (= free from trouble and fighting) after yesterday's riots.
a calm, cloudless day
'I'll call the doctor,' he said calmly.
Have some tea; it'll calm your nerves.
His presence had a calming influence.
Look, calm down! We'll find her.
We waited inside until things calmed down.
He took a few deep breaths to calm himself down.
the calm of a summer evening
The police appealed for calm.
They landed in a flat calm.
Her previous calm gave way to terror.
There was a short period of uneasy calm after the riot.
She spoke with icy calm.
We admired his calmness under pressure.
No sugar for me, thanks—I'm counting my calories.
a low-calorie drink/diet
the calorific value of food (= the quantity of heat or energy produced by a particular amount of food)
calorific chocolate cake
'Traffic calming' is a calque of the German 'Verkehrsberuhigung'.
a camel coat
a camel-hair coat
a cameo role/appearance
a cameo brooch/ring
Just point the camera and press the button.
Cameras started clicking as soon as she stepped out of the car.
a TV/video camera
a camera crew
The trial was held in camera.
Are you prepared to tell your story on camera?
a camouflage jacket (= covered with green and brown marks and worn by soldiers)
troops dressed in camouflage
Her angry words were camouflage for the way she felt.
The soldiers camouflaged themselves with leaves.
Her size was camouflaged by the long loose dress she wore.
He hid the letter in a drawer.
She managed to hide her disappointment.
The paintings were concealed beneath a thick layer of plaster.
Tim could barely conceal his disappointment.
She covered her face with her hands.
He tried to disguise his accent.
She masked her anger with a smile.
The soldiers camouflaged themselves with leaves and twigs.
camomile tea
Let's return to camp.
to pitch/make camp (= put up tents)
to break camp (= to take down tents)
a tennis camp
He spent two weeks at camp this summer.
summer camp
a refugee camp
a camp guard
an army camp
the socialist camp
We were in opposing camps.
There was an air of confidence in the England camp.
I camped overnight in a field.
They go camping in France every year.
I'm camping out at a friend's apartment at the moment.
Dozens of reporters camped out on her doorstep.
The movie is a camp celebration of the fashion industry.
to conduct a campaign
a campaign against ageism in the workplace
the campaign for parliamentary reform
an anti-smoking campaign
Today police launched (= began) a campaign to reduce road accidents.
an advertising campaign
an election campaign
the President's campaign team/manager
The party campaigned vigorously in the north of the country.
We have campaigned against whaling for the last 15 years.
They are campaigning to save the area from building development.
a leading human rights campaigner
a campaigner on environmental issues
a campaigner for women priests
an old/veteran/seasoned campaigner (= a person with a lot of experience of a particular activity)
(especially NAmE) Obama campaigners (= people working for Obama in a campaign)
Do you go camping?
a camping trip
She lives on campus (= within the main university area).
campus life
I can run fast.
Can you call back tomorrow?
He couldn't answer the question.
The stadium can be emptied in four minutes.
I can't promise anything, but I'll do what I can.
Please let us know if you cannot attend the meeting.
She can speak Spanish.
Can he cook?
I could drive a car before I left school.
She could feel a lump in her breast.
I can hear music.
You can take the car, if you want.
We can't wear jeans at work.
Can I read your newspaper?
Can I take you home?
Can I borrow your calculator?
You can come with us if you want to.
You can't park your car there.
May I borrow your newspaper?
You may come if you wish.
Visitors may use the swimming pool between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.
Students may not use the college car park.
Can you help me with this box?
Can you feed the cat, please?
That can't be Mary—she's in New York.
He can't have slept through all that noise.
What can they be doing?
Can he be serious?
Where can she have put it?
He can be very tactless sometimes.
It can be quite cold here in winter.
We can eat in a restaurant, if you like.
I can take the car if necessary.
You can shut up or get out!
I can't be doing with people who complain all the time.
Sorry, no can do. I just don't have the time.
a can of beans
a beer can
We drank a can of Coke each.
an oil can
a watering can
a can of hairspray
a can-do attitude/spirit
He can't dance for toffee!
I can't get over how rude she was.
I couldn't make head nor tail of what he was saying.
the Panama/Suez Canal
an irrigation canal
All flights have been cancelled because of bad weather.
Don't forget to cancel the newspaper (= arrange for it not to be delivered) before going away.
to cancel a policy/subscription
Is it too late to cancel my order?
The US has agreed to cancel debts (= say that they no longer need to be paid) totalling $10 million.
No charge will be made if you cancel within 10 days.
Recent losses have cancelled out any profits made at the start of the year.
The advantages and disadvantages would appear to cancel each other out.
We need at least 24 hours' notice of cancellation.
a cancellation fee
Heavy seas can cause cancellation of ferry services.
Cancellations must be made in writing.
Are there any cancellations for this evening's performance?(= tickets that have been returned)
the cancellation of the contract
lung/breast cancer
cancer of the bowel/stomach
Most skin cancers are completely curable.
The cancer has spread to his stomach.
cancer patients
cancer research
Violence is a cancer in our society.
to become cancerous
cancerous cells/growths/tumours
one of the leading candidates for the presidency
a presidential candidate
(BrE) He stood as a candidate in the local elections.
There were a large number of candidates for the job.
a candidate for the degree of MPhil
Our team is a prime candidate for relegation this year.
Your father is an obvious candidate for a heart attack.
a candid statement/interview
to announce/declare/withdraw your candidacy for the post
candied fruit
a box of candy
a candy store
a candy bar
Who wants the last piece of candy?
His singing can't hold a candle to Bocelli's.
to read by candlelight
a romantic candlelit dinner
'I don't trust him,' he said in a rare moment of candour.
a cane chair
to get the cane (= be punished with a cane )
the abolition of caning in schools
tear-gas canisters
a film canister
canned food/soup
a tribe of cannibals
to practise cannibalism
a canny politician
a canny move
He ran around the corner, cannoning into a group of kids.
I cannot believe the price of the tickets!
The word 'professional' has connotations of skill and excellence.
negative connotations
to go canoeing
the Shakespeare canon
'Wuthering Heights' is a central book in the canon of English literature.
The canopy of a rainforest is about 10 metres thick.
a new steel entrance canopy for the building
a fabric canopy to provide shade in the backyard
James Cox MA ( Cantab)
a cantankerous old man
She set off at a canter.
We cantered along the beach.
a cantilever bridge
Cantonese cooking
His efforts to stem the tide of violent crime have been as effective as Canute's.
a sale of the artist's early canvases
He spent the whole month canvassing for votes.
Party workers are busy canvassing local residents.
He has been canvassing opinion on the issue.
People are being canvassed for their views on the proposed new road.
The proposal is currently being canvassed.
to carry out a canvass
islands off the west coast of Ireland
a trip to the coast
We walked along the coast for five miles.
the Welsh coast
a pretty stretch of coast
the coast road
As soon as the coast was clear he climbed in through the window.
The car coasted along until it stopped.
She took her feet off the pedals and coasted downhill.
The plane coasted down the runway.
He coasted through his final exams.
You're just coasting—it's time to work hard now.
a school cap
a shower cap
He won his first cap (= was first chosen to play) for England against France.
There are three new caps in the side.
a lens cap
a jar with a tight-fitting lid
a bath plug
The government has placed a cap on local council spending.
I didn't actually say that you were lazy, but if the cap fits…
mountains capped with snow
snow-capped mountains
a capped mortgage
What an amazing story. Can anyone cap that?
He's had his front teeth capped.
He has been capped more than 30 times for Wales.
Animals in the zoo have lost the capability to catch/of catching food for themselves.
beyond/within the capabilities of current technology
Age affects the range of a person's capabilities.
Britain's nuclear/military capability
You are capable of better work than this.
He's quite capable of lying to get out of trouble.
I'm perfectly capable of doing it myself, thank you.
She's a very capable teacher.
I'll leave the organization in your capable hands.
capacious pockets
The theatre has a seating capacity of 2 000.
a fuel tank with a capacity of 50 litres
The hall was filled to capacity (= was completely full).
They played to a capacity crowd (= one that filled all the space or seats).
intellectual capacity
She has an enormous capacity for hard work.
Limited resources are restricting our capacity for developing new products.
your capacity to enjoy life
acting in her capacity as manager
We are simply involved in an advisory capacity on the project.
The factory is working at full capacity.
an engine with a capacity of 1 600 cc
a bullfighter's cape
Cape Horn
A call to the police should put an end to their little caper.
a British spy caper
He cut a little celebratory caper (= jumped or danced a few steps) in the middle of the road.
Cairo is the capital of Egypt.
(figurative) Paris, the fashion capital of the world
to set up a business with a starting capital of £100 000
capital assets
capital expenditure (= money that an organization spends on buildings, equipment, etc.)
capital and labour
Use block capitals (= separate capital letters).
Please write in capitals/in capital letters.
The opposition parties are making political capital out of the government's problems.
a capital offence
English is written with a capital 'E'.
He was romantic with a capital R.
to pay capital gains tax
The team failed to capitalize on their early lead.
a capitalist society/system/economy
a capitation fee for each pupil
He was held in captivity for three years.
The bird had escaped from captivity.
the California state capitol
They were finally forced to capitulate to the terrorists' demands.
The town capitulated after a three-week siege.
a capricious climate
a title printed in bold caps
Captain Cook
The captain gave the order to abandon ship.
Captain Lance Price
She was captain of the hockey team at school.
The captcha can only be solved by humans.
The children were captivated by her stories.
He found her captivating.
captive animals
They were taken captive by masked gunmen.
captive breeding (= the breeding of wild animals in zoos, etc.)
A salesman loves to have a captive audience (= listening because they have no choice).
Allied troops captured over 300 enemy soldiers.
The animals are captured in nets and sold to local zoos.
The city was captured in 1941.
The company has captured 90% of the market.
They use puppets to capture the imagination of younger audiences.
The article captured the mood of the nation.
The attack was captured on film by security cameras.
the capture of enemy territory
He evaded capture for three days.
data capture
Paula got into the car and drove off.
'How did you come?' ' By car.'
Are you going in the car?
a car driver/manufacturer/dealer
a car accident/crash
Where can I park the car?
Several cars went off the rails.
a sleeping/dining car
Her life is turning into a car crash.
The whole industry is a car crash—even major investment won't save it now.
car-crash television
to have a strong/weak character
character traits/defects
The book gives a fascinating insight into Mrs Obama's character.
Generosity is part of the American character.
The character of the neighbourhood hasn't changed at all.
the delicate character of the light in the evening
buildings that are very simple in character
Everyone admires her strength of character and determination.
He showed great character returning to the sport after his accident.
Adventure camps are considered to be character-building (= meant to improve sb's strong qualities).
The modern hotels here have no real character.
a face with a lot of character
There were some really strange characters hanging around the bar.
She's a character!
She was a victim of character assassination (= an unfair attack on the good opinion people had of her).
a slur/attack on his character
My teacher agreed to be a character witness for me in court.
a character reference (= a letter that a person who knows you well writes to an employer to tell them about your good qualities)
a major/minor character in the book
cartoon characters
Chinese characters
a line 30 characters long
The URL contained non-standard characters like question marks.
Her behaviour last night was completely out of character.
The new wing of the museum was not really in character with the rest of the building.
an 18-carat gold ring
a caravan site/park
a Gypsy caravan
caraway seeds
carbolic soap
carbon fibre
carbon emissions/levels/taxes
(BrE) How do we move to a low carbon economy?
She is a carbon copy of her sister.
The sale of carbon credits can finance renewable energy projects.
Wind energy companies sell carbon credits to consumers.
A massive carbon debt will be created when the forests are harvested.
Flying is the biggest contribution to my carbon footprint.
All of these fuels are renewable and carbon neutral.
carbon offset initiatives for air travellers
a piece of card
The model of the building was made of card.
a membership card
an appointment card
Here's my card if you need to contact me again.
I put the meal on (= paid for it using) my card.
a birthday/get-well/good luck card
Did you get my card from Italy?
(BrE) a pack of cards
(NAmE) a deck of cards
Who wants to play cards?
I've never been very good at cards.
Let's have a game of cards.
She won £20 at cards.
a printed circuit card
a graphics/network/sound card
The merger has been on the cards for some time now.
He accused his opponent of playing the immigration card during the campaign.
a credit card reader
a card-carrying member of the Conservative Party
a cardboard box
a piece of cardboard
a novel with superficial cardboard characters
cardiac disease/failure/surgery
to suffer cardiac arrest (= an occasion when a person's heart stops temporarily or permanently)
Cardinal Newman
Respect for life is a cardinal principle of English law.
He committed the cardinal sin of criticizing his teammates.
Cardio is the answer if you want to lose weight.
cardio exercise/workouts
cardiogram
medical/patient care
How much do men share housework and the care of the children?
the provision of care for the elderly
skin/hair care products
She chose her words with care.
Great care is needed when choosing a used car.
Fragile—handle with care (= written on a container holding sth which is easily broken or damaged)
The utmost caution must be exercised when handling explosives.
As a matter of prudence, keep a record of all your financial transactions.
I felt free from the cares of the day as soon as I left the building.
Sam looked as if he didn't have a care in the world.
Write to him care of his lawyer.
The two girls were taken into care after their parents were killed.
The child was left in the care of friends.
Bye! Take care!
Take care (that) you don't drink too much!
Care should be taken to close the lid securely.
Who's taking care of the children while you're away?
She takes great care of her clothes.
He's old enough to take care of himself.
We've asked my mother to take care of/look after the kids while we're away.
You can borrow my camera if you promise to take care of/look after it.
She does some voluntary work, caring for the elderly.
I don't really care for spicy food.
Don't worry about the travel arrangements. They're all being taken care of.
Celia takes care of the marketing side of things.
He's under the care of Dr Parks.
I don't care (= I will not be upset) if I never see him again!
He threatened to fire me, as if I cared!
She cares deeply about environmental issues.
I don't care what he thinks.
She doesn't seem to care that he's been married four times before.
He genuinely cares about his employees.
I've done this job more times than I care to remember.
Quite honestly, I couldn't care less what they do.
I could be dead for all he cares!
Who cares what she thinks?
Would you care for another drink?
If you'd care to follow me, I'll show you where his office is.
Would you like a cup of coffee?
We're going to a club tonight. Do you want to come with us?
She moved back home to care for her elderly parents.
He didn't much care for her friends.
a care home for the elderly
a career in politics
a teaching career
What made you decide on a career as a vet?
She has been concentrating on her career.
a change of career
That will be a good career move (= something that will help your career).
a career soldier/diplomat (= a professional one)
(BrE) a careers adviser/officer (= a person whose job is to give people advice and information about jobs)
It's very difficult to find work at the moment.
Only half the people here are in paid employment.
He had a very distinguished career in the Foreign Office.
He hopes to enter the medical profession.
the legal profession
Please state your name, age, and occupation.
Carpentry is a highly skilled trade.
She started her career as an English teacher.
He is playing the best tennis of his career.
My school career was not very impressive.
The vehicle careered across the road and hit a cyclist.
He looked happy and carefree.
a carefree attitude/life
Be careful!
He was careful to keep out of sight.
Be careful not to wake the baby.
You must be careful when handling chemicals.
Be careful of the traffic.
Please be careful with my glasses (= Don't break them).
Be careful you don't bump your head.
Look out! There's a car coming.
Be careful. It can be quite dangerous on that path.
Watch out. That's not a very safe place at night.
Make sure you keep hold of your bag.
I wouldn't do that if I were you.
a careful piece of work
a careful examination of the facts
After careful consideration we have decided to offer you the job.
Please listen carefully.
She put the glass down carefully.
Drive carefully.
Don't stay out in the sun for too long—you can't be too careful.
He's a very caring person.
Children need a caring environment.
a caring profession (= a job that involves looking after or helping other people)
It was careless of me to leave the door open.
Don't be so careless about/with spelling.
a careless worker/driver
a careless mistake/error
He seemed careless of his own safety.
She gave a careless shrug.
a careless laugh/smile
Someone had carelessly left a window open.
She threw her coat carelessly onto the chair.
'I don't mind,' he said carelessly.
a moment of carelessness
Call our customer careline for advice.
His fingers caressed the back of her neck.
a caretaker manager/government
The tanker began to spill its cargo of oil.
a cargo ship
He had unfairly presented a caricature of my views.
She was unfairly caricatured as a dumb blonde.
dental caries
a charismatic leader
a scene of carnage
carnal desires/appetites
He was wearing a carnation in his buttonhole.
There is a local carnival every year.
the carnival in Rio
a carnival atmosphere
this summer's carnival of sport
a carnivorous diet
a roll of carpet
to lay a carpet
a bedroom carpet
(BrE) We have fitted carpets (= carpets from wall to wall) in our house.
a carpet of snow
The hall was carpeted in blue.
The forest floor was carpeted with wild flowers.
new offices with wall-to-wall carpeting
(NAmE) We need new carpeting (= a new carpet) in the living room.
a railway carriage
a horse-drawn carriage
£16.95 including VAT and carriage
a carriage return (= the act of starting a new line when typing)
the eastbound carriageway of the M50
He was carrying a suitcase.
She carried her baby in her arms.
The injured were carried away on stretchers.
a train carrying commuters to work
Police in many countries carry guns.
I never carry much money on me.
a pipeline carrying oil
The veins carry blood to the heart.
Ticks can carry a nasty disease which affects humans.
A road bridge has to carry a lot of traffic.
He is carrying the department (= it is only working because of his efforts).
Their group was targeted to carry the burden of job losses.
Her speech carried the ring of authority.
My views don't carry much weight with (= have much influence on) the boss.
Each bike carries a ten-year guarantee.
Crimes of violence carry heavy penalties.
Being a combat sport, karate carries with it the risk of injury.
The fullback's kick carried 50 metres into the crowd.
The war was carried into enemy territory.
Her abilities carried her to the top of her profession.
The resolution was carried by 340 votes to 210.
His moving speech was enough to carry the audience.
She nodded in agreement, and he saw he had carried his point.
Cigarettes carry a health warning.
We carry a range of educational software.
She was carrying twins.
to carry yourself well
Despite strong opposition, the ruling party carried the day.
The smell of the sea carried her back to her childhood.
He carried off most of the prizes.
She's had her hair cut really short, but she can carry it off.
Carry on until you get to the junction, then turn left.
He was shouting and carrying on.
Carry on with your work while I'm away.
After he left I just tried to carry on as normal (= do the things I usually do).
Carry on the good work!
He carried on peeling the potatoes.
His wife found out he'd been carrying on with another woman.
to carry out a promise/a threat/a plan/an order
to carry out an inquiry/an investigation/a survey
Extensive tests have been carried out on the patient.
Attitudes learned at home carry over into the playground.
The match had to be carried over until Sunday.
His determination carried him through the ordeal.
It's a difficult job but she's the person to carry it through.
He has proved he can carry through on his promises.
an armoured personnel carrier
Aquarius, the Water Carrier
a baby carrier (= for carrying a baby on your back or in front of you)
a telecoms carrier
crows feeding on carrion
grated carrot
a pound of carrots
They are holding out a carrot of $120 million in economic aid.
What a carry-on!
Only one carry-on is allowed.
carry-on baggage
Let's get a carry-out.
carry-out coffees
His neatness is a carry-over from his army days.
The £20 million included a £7 million carry-over from last year's underspend.
Do you get carsick?
a horse and cart
a baggage cart
a serving cart
Add to cart.
a golf cart
The rubbish is then carted away for recycling.
We had to cart our luggage up six flights of stairs.
The demonstrators were carted off to the local police station.
a milk carton/a carton of milk
a carton of cigarettes
a Walt Disney cartoon
a cartoon character
to do/turn cartwheels
a carved doorway
The statue was carved out of a single piece of stone.
The wood had been carved into the shape of a flower.
She carves in both stone and wood.
They carved their initials on the desk.
Who's going to carve the turkey?
He succeeded in carving out a career in the media.
She has carved a place for herself in the fashion world.
People should remember that our proposals aren't set in stone.
a cascade of rainwater
Her hair tumbled in a cascade down her back.
He crashed to the ground in a cascade of oil cans.
Water cascaded down the mountainside.
Blonde hair cascaded over her shoulders.
In some cases people have had to wait several weeks for an appointment.
The company only dismisses its employees in cases of gross misconduct.
It's a classic case (= a very typical case) of bad planning.
Can you give me an example of what you mean?
The report highlights a number of instances of injustice.
The aquarium has some interesting specimens of unusual tropical fish.
The statistics are a clear illustration of the point I am trying to make.
If that is the case (= if the situation described is true), we need more staff.
It is simply not the case that prison conditions are improving.
In your case, we are prepared to be lenient.
I cannot make an exception in your case (= for you and not for others).
Every application will be decided on a case-by-case basis (= each one will be considered separately).
a murder case
a case of theft
The case will be heard next week.
a court case
to win/lose a case
the case for the defence/prosecution
Our lawyer didn't think we had a case (= had enough good arguments to win in a court of law).
the case for/against private education
The report makes out a strong case (= gives good arguments) for spending more money on hospitals.
You will each be given the chance to state your case.
a pencil case
a jewellery case
a packing case (= a large wooden box for packing things in)
The museum was full of stuffed animals in glass cases.
a case (= 12 bottles) of champagne
Let me carry your case for you.
a severe case of typhoid
The most serious cases were treated at the scene of the accident.
He's a hopeless case.
the nominative/accusative/genitive case
Latin nouns have case, number and gender.
There's no point complaining now—we're leaving tomorrow in any case.
In case of fire, ring the alarm bell.
'I've made up my mind.' 'In that case, there's no point discussing it.'
The prosecution rests its case.
The towers are made of steel cased in granite.
a heavy caseload (= a large number of people)
a cassette recorder/player
available on cassette
a video cassette (= for recording sound and pictures)
How much cash do you have on you?
Payments can be made by card or in cash.
Customers are offered a 10% discount if they pay cash.
The thieves stole £500 in cash.
I counted the money carefully.
Where can I change my money into dollars?
paper money (= money that is made of paper, not coins)
Payments can be made by cheque or in cash.
How much money/cash do you have on you?
The ticket machine doesn't give change.
I don't have any small change (= coins of low value).
The museum needs to find ways of raising cash.
I'm short of cash right now.
I'm constantly strapped for cash (= without enough money).
to pay for sth cash down
The film studio is being accused of cashing in on the singer's death.
a healthy cash flow (= having enough money to make payments when necessary)
cash-flow problems
cash-starved public services
cash-strapped governments/shoppers
There's £200 cashback on this computer if you buy before January 31.
Mark was cashed up that night, so he got the drinks.
support from cashed-up investors
We are moving towards the cashless society.
Casino capitalism in the country was driven by the desire among investors to make money fast.
a wine cask/a cask of wine
a chicken casserole
Is there any casserole left?
She cast a welcoming smile in his direction.
The setting sun cast an orange glow over the mountains.
(figurative) The sad news cast a shadow over the proceedings (= made people feel unhappy).
This latest evidence casts serious doubt on his version of events.
The priceless treasures had been cast into the Nile.
They cast anchor at nightfall.
The play is being cast in both the US and Britain.
He has cast her as an ambitious lawyer in his latest movie.
He cast himself as the innocent victim of a hate campaign.
The press were quick to cast her in the role of the 'other woman'.
a statue cast in bronze
(figurative) an artist cast in the mould of (= very similar to) Miró
I want you to cast your minds back to the first time you met.
Could you just run your eyes over this report?
Recent research has thrown new light on the causes of the disease.
They drew lots for the right to go first.
She cast around desperately for a safe topic of conversation.
The town is still trying to cast off its dull image.
He claimed to have the power to cast out demons.
The whole cast performs/perform brilliantly.
members of the cast
an all-star cast (= including many well-known actors)
the supporting cast (= not the main actors, but the others)
a cast list
He has an unusual cast of mind.
I disliked the arrogant cast to her mouth.
Her leg's in a cast.
a cast-iron bridge
a cast-iron guarantee/promise
a cast-iron excuse/alibi
a cast-off overcoat
the caste system
high-caste Brahmins
the ruling caste
He castigated himself for being so stupid.
a casual manner
It was just a casual remark—I wasn't really serious.
He tried to sound casual, but I knew he was worried.
They have a casual attitude towards safety (= they don't care enough).
a casual glance
It's obvious even to the casual observer.
casual clothes (= comfortable clothes that you choose to wear in your free time)
family parties and other casual occasions
casual workers/labour
Students sometimes do casual work in the tourist trade.
They are employed on a casual basis (= they do not have a permanent job with the company).
a casual acquaintance
a casual friendship
to have casual sex (= to have sex without having a steady relationship with that partner)
a casual encounter/meeting
a casual passer-by
The exhibition is interesting to both the enthusiast and the casual visitor.
The disease is not spread by casual contact.
'What did he say about me?' she asked as casually as she could.
They chatted casually on the phone.
dressed casually in jeans and T-shirt
He was sure that the casualness of the gesture was deliberate.
dressed in casuals
road casualties
Both sides had suffered heavy casualties (= many people had been killed).
She became a casualty of the reduction in part-time work (= she lost her job).
Small shops have been a casualty of the recession.
The victims were rushed to casualty.
cat food
the big cats (= lions, tigers, etc.)
Managing a political party is a lot like herding cats.
Students over 25 fall into a different category.
The results can be divided into three main categories.
Participants were categorized according to age.
His latest work cannot be categorized as either a novel or an autobiography.
a mail-order catalogue (= a book showing goods for sale to be sent to people's homes)
to consult the library catalogue
An illustrated catalogue accompanies the exhibition.
an online catalogue
a catalogue of disasters/errors/misfortunes
Interviews with the refugees catalogue a history of discrimination and violence.
I see my role as being a catalyst for change.
She was catapulted out of the car as it hit the wall.
(figurative) The movie catapulted him to international stardom.
Early warnings of rising water levels prevented another major catastrophe.
The attempt to expand the business was a catastrophe for the firm.
We've had a few catastrophes with the food for the party.
catastrophic effects/losses/results
(US) a catastrophic illness (= one that costs a very large amount to treat)
She managed to catch the keys as they fell.
'Throw me over that towel, will you?' 'OK. Catch!'
The dog caught the stick in its mouth.
The roof was leaking and I had to use a bucket to catch the drips.
He caught hold of her arm as she tried to push past him.
The murderer was never caught.
Our cat is hopeless at catching mice.
How many fish did you catch?
I caught her smoking in the bathroom.
You wouldn't catch me working (= I would never work) on a Sunday!
She caught herself wondering whether she had made a mistake.
He was caught with bomb-making equipment in his home.
Mark walked in and caught them at it (= in the act of doing sth wrong).
thieves caught in the act
You've caught me at a bad time (= at a time when I am busy).
We caught the 12.15 from Oxford.
I must go—I have a train to catch.
I caught him just as he was leaving the building.
I was hoping to catch you at home (= to telephone you at home when you were there).
The illness can be treated provided it's caught (= discovered) early enough.
(BrE) to catch the post (= post letters before the box is emptied)
(BrE, informal) Bye for now! I'll catch you later (= speak to you again later).
Let's eat now and maybe we could catch a movie later.
She looked for him but couldn't see him in the crowd.
He could see (that) she had been crying.
I've just spotted a mistake on the front cover.
She caught sight of a car in the distance.
He caught a glimpse of himself in the mirror.
He'd glimpsed her through the window as he passed.
His arrival caught me by surprise.
She got caught in a thunderstorm.
to catch measles
I think I must have caught this cold from you.
Her dress caught on a nail.
He caught his thumb in the door.
The stone caught him on the side of the head.
She caught him a blow on the chin.
I caught a look of surprise on her face.
He caught a whiff of her perfume.
Sorry, I didn't quite catch what you said.
The artist has caught her smile perfectly.
The knife gleamed as it caught the light.
The wooden rafters caught fire.
These logs are wet: they won't catch.
Can you catch the waiter's eye?
If your dad finds out you'll really catch it!
She looked through the hotel advertisements until one of them caught her fancy.
He invented a new game, but it never really caught on.
He is very quick to catch on to things.
Many investors were caught out by the fall in share prices.
They tried to catch her out with a difficult question.
I have a lot of work to catch up on.
We spent the evening catching up (on each other's news).
Go on ahead. I'll catch up with you.
I'll catch you up.
After missing a term through illness he had to work hard to catch up with the others.
She was terrified that one day her past problems would catch up with her.
The law caught up with him years later when he had moved to Spain.
to make a catch
a huge catch of fish
a catch on the door
safety catches for the windows
All that money for two hours' work—what's the catch?
a catch-all phrase/term
It was a month of catch-up for them.
We must get together for a catch-up.
I have a catch-up meeting with my manager at two.
catch-up TV
After our bad start to the season we were always playing catch-up.
He caught hold of her wrists so she couldn't get away.
Lee got hold of the dog by its collar.
Quick, grab a hold of that rope.
Gently, she took hold of the door handle and turned it.
a rat catcher
a catchy tune/slogan
Try to be as enthusiastic as possible (enthusiasm is catching)!
In education, 'quality' is the catchword.
to make a categorical statement
to give a categorical assurance
He categorically rejected our offer.
(BrE) Most of our work now involves catering for weddings.
(NAmE) Who will be catering the wedding?
The class caters for all ability ranges.
They only publish novels which cater to the mass market.
Who did the catering for your son's wedding?
It was a cathartic experience.
St Paul's Cathedral
(BrE) a cathedral city
Are they Catholic or Protestant?
a Catholic church
to have catholic tastes (= to like many different things)
They're Catholics.
a catty comment
a herd of cattle
twenty head of cattle (= twenty cows)
dairy/beef cattle
We were in cattle class on the plane so we were very cramped.
a restaurant catty-corner from the theater
Motorcyclists cut catty-cornered across his yard.
the Congressional Black Caucus
a witch's cauldron
(figurative) The stadium was a seething cauldron of emotion.
Do you like cauliflower?
two cauliflowers
the causal relationship between poverty and disease
Are the two factors causally connected?
Smoking is a causative factor in several major diseases.
Unemployment is a major cause of poverty.
There was discussion about the fire and its likely cause.
Drinking and driving is one of the most common causes of traffic accidents.
There is no cause for concern.
The food was excellent—I had no cause for complaint.
with/without good cause (= with/without a good reason)
Animal welfare campaigners raised £70 000 for their cause last year.
a good cause (= an organization that does good work, such as a charity)
fighting for the Republican cause
Do they know what caused the fire?
Are you causing trouble again?
deaths caused by dangerous driving
The bad weather is causing problems for many farmers.
The project is still causing him a lot of problems.
The poor harvest caused prices to rise sharply.
caustic comments/wit
extreme/great caution
Statistics should be treated with caution.
As a first offender, she got off with a caution.
a word/note of caution
Some cautions must be mentioned—for example good tools are essential to do the job well.
I would caution against getting too involved.
Sam cautioned him against making a hasty decision.
The government cautioned that pay increases could lead to job losses.
Employees were cautioned to be careful about what they said to people outside the company.
'I'd take care if I were you,' she cautioned (him).
Suspects must be cautioned before any questions are asked.
She wasn't sent to the juvenile court; instead she was cautioned.
a cautionary tale about the problems of buying a computer
In her conclusion, the author sounds a cautionary note.
The government has been cautious in its response to the report.
They've taken a very cautious approach.
They expressed cautious optimism about a solution to the crisis.
He was very cautious about committing himself to anything.
Be careful / Take care when you drive on icy roads.
Caution / Warning —thin ice.
She looked cautiously around and then walked away from the house.
I'm cautiously optimistic.
The government takes a cavalier attitude to the problems of prison overcrowding.
the mouth (= the entrance) of the cave
a cave-dweller (= a person who lives in a cave )
The ceiling suddenly caved in on top of them.
The President is unlikely to cave in to demands for a public inquiry.
He had always wanted to go caving.
the abdominal cavity
cavity wall insulation
The photos showed her cavorting on the beach with her new lover.
A truck driver used his CB radio to call for help.
He was made a CBE in 2012.
Shami Chakrabarti CBE
to Luke Peters, cc Janet Gold
an 850cc engine
Her message was sent to the company president and cc'ed to us.
His albums are available on CD and online.
The software package contains 5 CD-ROMs.
The encyclopedia is available on CD-ROM.
a CD-ROM drive (= in a computer)
Cdr (John) Stone
Welfare payments cease as soon as an individual starts a job.
You never cease to amaze me!
They voted to cease strike action immediately.
He ordered his men to cease fire (= stop shooting).
The company ceased trading in June.
'I've cleaned my room.' 'Wonders will never cease!'
a call for an immediate ceasefire
Observers have reported serious violations of the ceasefire.
Alsace-Lorraine was ceded to Germany by France in 1871.
The course is suitable for students at CEFR level B1.
She lay on her back staring up at the ceiling.
a large room with a high ceiling
price ceilings
It will be a mild night, around nine degrees Celsius.
the Celsius Scale
temperatures in Celsius and Fahrenheit
Jake's passed his exams. We're going out to celebrate.
We celebrated our 25th wedding anniversary in Florence.
How do people celebrate New Year in your country?
a movie celebrating the life and work of Nelson Mandela
a celebrated painter
birthday/wedding celebrations
Her triumph was a cause for celebration.
a party in celebration of their fiftieth wedding anniversary
The service was a celebration of his life (= praised what he had done in his life).
a celebratory drink/dinner
TV celebrities
Does he find his new celebrity intruding on his private life?
(BrE) a stick of celery
(NAmE) a stalk of celery
celestial bodies (= the sun, moon, stars, etc.)
celestial light/music
celibate priests
I've been celibate for the past six months.
a vow of celibacy
blood cells
the nucleus of a cell
a photoelectric cell
a terrorist cell
cell phone users
I talked to her on my cell phone.
The use of cellular phones is not permitted on most aircraft.
a coal cellar
cellular structure/processes
a cellular network
cellular radio
cellular blankets
Celtic history
a floor of cement
a cement floor
dental cement (= for filling holes in teeth)
values which are the cement of society
The President's visit was intended to cement the alliance between the two countries.
The news reports had been heavily censored.
press censorship
The decree imposed strict censorship of the media.
a vote of censure on the government's foreign policy
He was censured for leaking information to the press.
in the 20th cent.
The club will celebrate its centenary next year.
the centenary year
The year 1889 was the centennial of the inauguration of George Washington.
The central issue is that of widespread racism.
She has been a central figure in the campaign.
Prevention also plays a central role in traditional medicine.
Reducing inflation is central to (= is an important part of) the government's economic policy.
Be careful crossing the main road.
The main thing is to remain calm.
He played a major role in setting up the system.
Our major concern here is combatting poverty.
He was a key figure in the campaign.
Speed is key at this point.
The central issue is that of widespread racism.
The principal reason for this omission is lack of time.
The key/central issue here is…
Unemployment was the chief cause of poverty.
My prime concern is to protect my property.
the central committee (= of a political party)
The organization has a central office in York.
central London
Central America/Europe/Asia
the central area of the brain
The flat is very central—just five minutes from Princes Street.
a central location
the centrality of the family as a social institution
The hotel is centrally located for all major attractions.
a centrally planned economy
Is the house centrally heated (= does it have central heating)?
centipede
centimetre
a temperature of 40 degrees centigrade
temperatures in centigrade and Fahrenheit
(figurative) He looked like an absent-minded professor straight out of central casting.
a highly centralized system of government
the centralization of political power
centralist control of schools
the centre of a circle
a long table in the centre of the room
chocolates with soft centres
in the town/city centre
the centre of town
a town-centre car park
major urban/industrial centres
a centre of population
Small towns in South India serve as economic and cultural centres for the surrounding villages.
a shopping/sports/leisure/community centre
the Centre for Policy Studies
Children like to be the centre of attention.
The prime minister is at the centre of a political row over leaked Cabinet documents.
a child-centred approach to teaching
a party of the centre
He's giving away money left, right and centre.
Carefully centre the photograph on the page and stick it in place.
State occasions always centred around the king.
Discussions were centred on developments in Eastern Europe.
Most of the fighting was centred in the north of the capital.
Education is taking centre stage in the government's plans.
This region continues to occupy centre stage in world affairs.
The minister said, 'We are putting full employment centre stage.'
a centre-left coalition government
Most of the centre-left will give their support.
Europe's centre-right parties
a politician of the centre-right
My family helps to keep me centred.
This treaty is the centrepiece of the government's foreign policy.
the 20th century (= AD 1901–2000 or 1900–1999)
eighteenth-century writers
It was built at the turn of the century.
an exhibition of ceramics by Picasso
ceramic tiles
cereal crops
breakfast cereals
a bowl of cereal
a cerebral haemorrhage
His poetry is very cerebral.
ceremonial occasions
a ceremonial sword
The visit was conducted with all due ceremonial.
an awards/opening ceremony
a wedding/marriage ceremony
Please don't stand on ceremony (= Please be natural and relaxed) with me.
He found himself pushed without ceremony out of the house and the door slammed in his face.
That horse is a dead cert for (= is sure to win) the next race.
The climbers face certain death if the rescue today is unsuccessful.
It is certain that they will agree.
She looks certain to win an Oscar.
They are certain to agree.
If you want to be certain of getting a ticket, book now.
'Is that John over there?' 'I'm not sure.'
Are you sure about that?
England must win this game to be sure of qualifying.
I'm quite sure (that) I left my bag here(= I have no doubt about it).
I'm quite confident that you'll get the job.
The team feels confident of winning.
I'm convinced that she's innocent.
Are you absolutely certain about this?
She was positive that he'd been there.
'Are you sure?' 'Positive.'
My memory isn't really clear on that point.
She wasn't certain (that) he had seen her.
I'm not certain who was there.
To my certain knowledge he was somewhere else at the time (= I am sure about it).
For certain personal reasons I shall not be able to attend.
Certain people might disagree with this.
They refused to release their hostages unless certain conditions were met.
It was a certain Dr Davis who performed the operation.
That's true, to a certain extent.
I felt there was a certain coldness in her manner.
I can't say for certain when we'll arrive.
I think there's a bus at 8 but you'd better call to make certain.
You'll have to leave soon to make certain of getting there on time.
I'm sure/100% certain/absolutely positive I left my keys on the table.
There's no doubt in my mind that this is the best option.
Without a doubt,/No question, this is where it was.
I'm not (at all) sure what time they arrive, to be honest.
I rather doubt they'll call back.(BrE)
Certain of those present were unwilling to discuss the matter further.
political/moral certainties
Her return to the team now seems a certainty.
There is no certainty that the president's removal would end the civil war.
I can't say with any certainty where I'll be next week.
Without treatment, she will almost certainly die.
Certainly, the early years are crucial to a child's development.
I'm certainly never going there again.
Surely this can't be right?
You're surely not thinking of going, are you?
I'll certainly remember this trip!
I'll sure remember this trip!
The meal was certainly too expensive(= there is no doubt about it).
The meal was surely too expensive?(= that is my opinion. Don't you agree?)
This will surely end in disaster.
'May I see your passport, Mr Scott?' 'Certainly.'
'Do you think all this money will change your life?' 'Certainly not.'
He handed her a piece of paper certifying (that) she was in good health.
This (= this document) is to certify that…
He was certified dead on arrival.
The accounts were certified (as) correct by the finance department.
The plants must be certified to be virus free.
Patients must be certified before they can be admitted to the hospital.
(informal) He's certifiable (= he's crazy).
certifiably insane
a birth/marriage/death certificate
a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (= a British qualification for teachers)
the medical certification of the cause of death
the certification of the exam modules
'You will like Rome,' he said, with absolute certitude.
the collapse of moral certitudes
cervical cancer
the cervical spine
Mexico called for an immediate cessation of hostilities.
a cesspit of corruption
The movie 'Dinosaur' combines CGI animation with live-action location shots.
to dance/do the cha-cha
Her wrists chafed where the rope had been.
The collar was far too tight and chafed her neck.
He soon chafed at the restrictions of his situation.
a short length of chain
She wore a heavy gold chain around her neck.
The mayor wore his chain of office.
a bicycle chain
The prisoners were kept in chains (= with chains around their arms and legs, to prevent them from escaping).
to set in motion a chain of events
a chain of command (= a system in an organization by which instructions are passed from one person to another)
mountain/island chains
Volunteers formed a human chain to rescue precious items from the burning house.
a chain of supermarkets/a supermarket chain
the chains of fear/misery
The doors were always locked and chained.
The dog was chained up for the night.
She chained her bicycle to the gate.
(figurative) I've been chained to my desk all week (= because there was so much work).
It set off a chain reaction in the international money markets.
a table and chairs
Sit on your chair!
an old man asleep in a chair (= an armchair )
She takes the chair in all our meetings.
Who is in the chair today?
He was elected chair of the city council.
He holds the chair of philosophy at Oxford.
Who's chairing the meeting?
the chairman of the board of governors (= of a school)
The chairman of the company presented the annual report.
the chairmanship of the committee
under her skilful chairmanship
the chalk cliffs of southern England
a piece/stick of chalk
drawing diagrams with chalk on the blackboard
a box of coloured chalks
It's not over yet—not by a long chalk.
She chalked (up) the day's menu on the board.
The team chalked up their tenth win this season.
We can chalk that win up to a lot of luck.
We lost a lot of money, but we just put it down to experience.
The police filed a challan against the four accused in the case.
He was issued a challan for the traffic offence and agreed to pay a fine.
You need to show a copy of the fee payment challan before you can take the exam.
The traffic policeman challaned him for not wearing a helmet.
an exciting/interesting challenge
The role will be the biggest challenge of his acting career.
to face a challenge (= to have to deal with one)
Destruction of the environment is one of the most serious challenges we face.
Schools must meet the challenge of new technology (= deal with it successfully).
to accept/take up a challenge
to mount a challenge
It was a direct challenge to the president's authority.
Their legal challenge was unsuccessful.
The story was completely untrue and was successfully challenged in court.
She does not like anyone challenging her authority.
This discovery challenges traditional beliefs.
Mike challenged me to a game of chess.
The opposition leader challenged the prime minister to call an election.
The job doesn't really challenge her.
We were challenged by police at the border.
a competition for physically challenged athletes
(humorous) I'm financially challenged at the moment (= I have no money).
the official challenger for the world championship title
challenging work/questions/problems
a challenging and rewarding career as a teacher
The exam questions were quite difficult.
It is difficult for young people to find jobs around here.
I always found languages quite hard at school.
It was one of the hardest things I ever did.
It is a technically demanding piece of music to play.
This shouldn't be too taxing for you.
She gave him a challenging look. 'Are you really sure?' she demanded.
The members left the council chamber.
the Senate/House chamber
the Lower/Upper Chamber (= in Britain, the House of Commons/House of Lords)
the Chamber of Deputies in the Italian parliament
Under Senate rules, the chamber must vote on the bill by this Friday.
a burial chamber
Divers transfer from the water to a decompression chamber.
the chambers of the heart
the rocket's combustion chamber
the chamber of a gun (= the part that holds the bullets)
They found themselves in a vast underground chamber.
chamomile tea
Scottish champs celebrate victory!
a glass of champagne
the world basketball champions
a champion jockey/boxer/swimmer
the reigning champion (= the person who is champion now)
She was a champion of the poor all her life.
He has always championed the cause of gay rights.
the National Basketball Association Championship
He won a silver medal at the European Championships.
They've held the championship for the past two years.
Rick hasn't changed. He looks exactly the same as he did at school.
changing attitudes towards education
Her life changed completely when she won the lottery.
Fame hasn't really changed him.
Computers have changed the way people work.
Wait for the traffic lights to change.
The lights changed from red to green.
Caterpillars change into butterflies.
With a wave of her magic wand, she changed the frog into a handsome prince.
Leaves change colour in autumn.
The wind has changed direction.
Our ship changed course.
I want to change my doctor.
That back tyre needs changing.
We change our car every two years.
We changed the car for a bigger one.
Marie changed her name when she got married.
She changed her name to his.
At half-time the teams change ends.
Can we change seats?
Can I change seats with you?
I went into the bedroom to change.
She changed into her swimsuit.
You need to change out of those wet things.
(especially NAmE) I didn't have time to change clothes before the party.
(especially BrE) I didn't have time to get changed before the party (= to put different clothes on).
She can't even change a nappy.
The baby needs changing.
There are baby changing facilities in all our stores.
to change the sheets
Could you help me change the bed?
Where can I change my traveller's cheques?
to change dollars into yen
Can you change a £20 note?
to change a dollar bill for four quarters
This shirt I bought's too small—I'll have to change it for a bigger one.
Of course we'll change it for a larger size, Madam.
Where do I have to change?
Change at Reading (for London).
I stopped in Moscow only to change planes.
The house has changed hands several times.
Nothing will make me change my mind.
Wait until it happens to him—he'll soon change his tune.
I'm perfectly happy—I wouldn't change places with anyone.
You've changed all the furniture around.
She changed back into her work clothes.
You can change back unused dollars into pounds at the bank.
Change down into second.
The farm has changed over to organic methods.
Change up into fifth.
a change in the weather
important changes to the tax system
There was no change in the patient's condition overnight.
She is someone who hates change.
social/political/economic change
Finishing early was a welcome change.
Let's stay in tonight for a change.
Can you just listen for a change?
It makes a change to read some good news for once.
a change of address
a change of government
a change from agriculture to industry
There will be a crew change when we land at Dubai.
(BrE) Let's get away for the weekend. A change of scene (= time in a different place) will do you good.
She packed a change of clothes for the weekend.
I keep a change of shoes in the car.
Don't forget your change!
That's 40p change.
The ticket machine gives change.
Do you have any change for the parking meter?
a dollar in change (= coins that together are worth one dollar)
I didn't have any small change (= coins of low value) to leave as a tip.
He puts his loose change in a money box for the children.
Could you give me change for a ten pound note (= coins or notes that are worth this amount)?
The journey involved three changes.
Ring the changes with a new colour.
Is there any chance of getting tickets for tonight?
She has only a slim chance of passing the exam.
There's a slight chance that he'll be back in time.
There is no chance that he will change his mind.
What chance is there of anybody being found alive?
Nowadays a premature baby has a very good chance of survival.
The operation has a fifty-fifty chance of success.
an outside chance (= a very small one)
The chances are a million to one against being struck by lightning.
It was the chance she had been waiting for.
Jeff deceived me once already—I won't give him a second chance.
This is your big chance (= opportunity for success).
We won't get another chance of a holiday this year.
Please give me a chance to explain.
Tonight is your last chance to catch the play at your local theatre.
There will be a chance for parents to look around the school.
When installing electrical equipment don't take any chances. A mistake could kill.
I met her by chance (= without planning to) at the airport.
Chess is not a game of chance.
It was pure chance that we were both there.
We'll plan everything very carefully and leave nothing to chance.
The chances are you won't have to pay.
That dog will give you a nasty bite, given half a chance.
'Do you think he'll do it?' 'No chance.'
I didn't think you'd be at home but I just called by on the off chance.
The driver didn't stand a chance of stopping in time.
We took a chance on the weather and planned to have the party outside.
He took his chances and jumped into the water.
He hasn't a dog's chance of passing the exam.
She has more than an even chance of winning tomorrow.
She was chancing her luck driving without a licence.
'Take an umbrella.' 'No, I'll chance it (= take the risk that it may rain).'
I stayed hidden; I couldn't chance coming out.
If I do chance to find out where she is, I'll inform you immediately.
They chanced to be staying at the same hotel.
It chanced (that) they were staying at the same hotel.
One day he chanced upon Emma's diary and began reading it.
a chance meeting/encounter
Chancellor Merkel
MPs waited for the chancellor's announcement.
the Lord Chancellor (= a senior law official)
What's on Channel 4 tonight?
a movie/sports channel
to change/switch channels
terrestrial/satellite channels
Complaints must be made through the proper channels.
The newsletter is a useful channel of communication between teacher and students.
The company has worldwide distribution channels.
The campaign provided a channel for protest against the war.
Music is a great channel for releasing your emotions.
drainage channels in the rice fields
the Bristol Channel
the Channel Tunnel
cross-Channel ferries
news from across the Channel (= from France)
He channels his aggression into sport.
Money for the project will be channelled through local government.
A sensor channels the light signal along an optical fibre.
He believed that he could channel an ancestor from two hundred years ago.
When he sang, he would channel Nat King Cole.
The weather is very changeable at this time of year.
She's a changed woman since she got that job.
This will not be possible in the changed economic climate.
the changeover from a manual to a computerized system
a changeover period
The car comes with white leather seats and a 6-CD changer.
The whole experience was a life changer for me.
The crowd broke into chants of 'Out! Out!'
football chants
a Buddhist chant
A group of protesters, chanting and carrying placards, waited outside.
The crowd chanted their hero's name.
'Resign! Resign!' they chanted.
The chanting rose in volume.
economic/political/domestic chaos
Heavy snow has caused total chaos on the roads.
The house was in chaos after the party.
The traffic in the city is chaotic in the rush hour.
He isn't such a bad chap really.
a college chapel
a Methodist chapel
a Mormon chapel
She always went to chapel on Sundays.
a pair of chaps
I've just finished Chapter 3.
in the previous/next/last chapter
Have you read the chapter on the legal system?
a difficult chapter in our country's history
a meeting of the dean and chapter
the local chapter of the Rotary club
I can't give chapter and verse, but that's the rough outline of our legal position.
The company has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
a cup of char
This is an unfair characterization of the Prime Minister.
the rolling hills that characterize this part of England
The city is characterized by tall modern buildings in steel and glass.
activities that are characterized as 'male' or 'female' work
She spoke with characteristic enthusiasm.
Characteristically, Helen paid for everyone.
The need to communicate is a key characteristic of human society.
The two groups of children have quite different characteristics.
Personal characteristics, such as age and sex are taken into account.
genetic characteristics
Their whole marriage had been a charade—they had never loved each other.
Let's play charades.
charcoal-grilled steaks
a charcoal drawing
We have to make a small charge for refreshments.
admission charges
Delivery is free of charge.
a low hourly rate of pay
interest rates
an admission charge
legal fees
an annual membership fee
The weekly rent on the car was over $300.
a parking fine
Would you like to put that on your charge?
'Are you paying cash?' 'No, it'll be a charge.'
criminal charges
a murder/an assault charge
He will be sent back to England to face a charge of (= to be on trial for) armed robbery.
They decided to drop the charges against the newspaper and settle out of court.
After being questioned by the police, she was released without charge.
She rejected the charge that the story was untrue.
Be careful you don't leave yourself open to charges of political bias.
She has charge of the day-to-day running of the business.
They left the au pair in charge of the children for a week.
He took charge of the farm after his father's death.
I'm leaving the school in your charge.
a positive/negative charge
He put his phone on charge.
He led the charge down the field.
the emotional charge of the piano piece
His charge was to obtain specific information.
What did they charge for the repairs?
The restaurant charged £20 for dinner.
We won't charge you for delivery.
Calls are charged at 36p per minute.
He only charged me half price.
Do you think museums should charge for admission?
The bank doesn't charge to stop a payment.
They charge the calls to their credit-card account.
(NAmE) Don't worry. I'll charge it (= pay by credit card).
Several people were arrested but nobody was charged.
He was charged with murder.
Opposition MPs charged the minister with neglecting her duty.
The bull put its head down and charged.
We charged at the enemy.
The children charged down the stairs.
He came charging into my room and demanded to know what was going on.
Before use, the battery must be charged.
I need to charge my phone.
The shaver can be charged up and used when travelling.
The committee has been charged with the development of sport in the region.
The governing body is charged with managing the school within its budget.
The room was charged with hatred.
Please charge your glasses and drink a toast to the bride and groom!
Any expenses you may incur will be chargeable to the company.
chargeable earnings/income
a highly charged atmosphere
a politically charged issue
The dialogue is charged with menace.
a phone charger
The President has great personal charisma.
a lack of charisma
a charitable institution/foundation/trust
a charitable donation/gift
(BrE) to have charitable status (= to be an official charity)
His later years were devoted largely to charitable work.
Let's be charitable and assume she just made a mistake.
Try to think about him a little more charitably.
Many charities sent money to help the victims of the famine.
The concert will raise money for local charities.
Most of the runners in the London Marathon are raising money for charity.
Do you give much to charity?
a charity concert (= organized to get money for charity)
to live on/off charity (= to live on money which other people give you because you are poor)
Her article showed no charity towards her former friends.
Ow! I just got a charley horse in my leg.
You must have felt a proper charlie!
a man of great charm
The hotel is full of charm and character.
her physical charms (= her beauty)
a lucky charm
a charm bracelet
He was charmed by her beauty and wit.
Her words had lost their power to charm.
He has led a charmed life (= he has been lucky even in dangerous or difficult situations).
The cottage is tiny, but it's charming.
She's a charming person.
They left me to tidy it all up myself. Charming, wasn't it?
a charmless industrial town
the charred remains of a burnt-out car
a weather chart
a sales chart (= showing the level of a company's sales)
a naval chart
The album went straight into the charts at number 1.
to top the charts (= to be the song or album that has sold more copies than all the others)
World demand for the product is off the charts.
The exhibition charts the history of the palace.
She had carefully charted her route to the top of her profession.
Cook charted the coast of New Zealand in 1768.
his latest chart-topping hit
the European Social Charter of workers' rights
the United Nations Charter
The Royal College received its charter as a university in 1967.
The new law will be a charter for unscrupulous financial advisers.
a blackmailer's charter
a yacht available for charter
a chartered plane
a chartered accountant/surveyor/engineer
My dog likes chasing rabbits.
The kids chased each other around the kitchen table.
He chased after the burglar but couldn't catch him.
Too many people are chasing too few jobs nowadays.
The team is chasing its first win in five games.
Kevin's been chasing after Joan for months.
Girls are always chasing him.
I need to chase him about organizing the meeting.
I've been chasing around town all morning looking for a present for Sharon.
chased silver
We need to chase up all members who have not yet paid.
My job was to chase up late replies.
The thieves were caught by police after a short chase.
a high-speed car chase
We lost him in the narrow streets and had to give up the chase (= stop chasing him).
to take up the chase (= start chasing sb)
Three teams are involved in the chase for the championship.
Right, let's cut to the chase. How much is it going to cost?
We gave chase along the footpath.
a beer with a whisky chaser
to remain chaste
a chaste kiss on the cheek
the cool, chaste interior of the hall
He kissed her chastely on the cheek.
He felt suitably chastened and apologized.
She gave them a chastening lecture.
It was a chastening experience.
He chastised the team for their lack of commitment.
vows of chastity (= those taken by some priests)
My kids spend hours chatting on the phone to their friends.
Within minutes of being introduced they were chatting away like old friends.
What were you chatting about?
He's been on the computer all morning, chatting with his friends.
She went straight over and tried to chat him up.
I just called in for a chat.
I had a long chat with her.
Discussions are still taking place between the two leaders.
a telephone conversation
The novel has long descriptions and not much dialogue.
The President told waiting reporters there had been a constructive dialogue.
I had a long talk with my boss about my career prospects.
a debate on prison reform
There have been extensive consultations between the two countries.
I just called in for a chat about the kids.
We had a good gossip about the boss.
That's enough chat from me—on with the music!
chat software
Internet chat services
Fans are invited to an online chat.
a chat-show host
Is that your best chat-up line?
They chattered away happily for a while.
The children chattered to each other excitedly about the next day's events.
Jane's constant chatter was beginning to annoy him.
idle chatter
the chatter of monkeys
the chatter of teeth
You're very chatty today, Alice.
a chatty letter
He was chauffeured to all his meetings.
a chauffeured limousine
cheap fares
Personal computers are cheap and getting cheaper.
Cycling is a cheap way to get around.
The printer isn't exactly cheap at £200.
immigrant workers, used as a source of cheap labour (= workers who are paid very little, especially unfairly)
a cheap restaurant/hotel
(BrE) We found a cheap and cheerful cafe (= one that is simple and charges low prices but is pleasant).
cheap perfume/jewellery/shoes
(BrE) a cheap and nasty bottle of wine
I was tired of his cheap jokes at my expense.
He's just a cheap crook.
His treatment of her made her feel cheap (= ashamed, because she had lost her respect for herself).
Don't be so cheap!
a guide to decorating your house on the cheap
I got this dress cheap in a sale.
Violins like this don't come cheap.
She never cheapened herself by lowering her standards.
to cheapen the cost of raw materials
The movie was accused of cheapening human life.
I'm sure I could buy this more cheaply somewhere else.
a cheaply made movie
Many people feel cheated by the government's refusal to hold a referendum.
He cheats at cards.
They cheated him out of his share of the profits.
You little cheat!
It's really a cheat, but you can use ready-made pastry if you want.
There's a cheat you can use to get to the next level.
Check the container for cracks or leaks.
She gave me the minutes of the meeting to read and check.
Check the oil and water before setting off.
Check your work before handing it in.
The goods were examined for damage on arrival.
Make sure you inspect the goods before signing for them.
The Tourist Board inspects all recommended hotels at least once a year.
The surveyor examined the walls for signs of damp.
Public health officials were called in to inspect the restaurant.
Go over your work for spelling mistakes before you hand it in.
'Is Mary in the office?' 'Just a moment. I'll go and check.'
Hang on—I just need to check my email.
Go and check (that) I've locked the windows.
You'd better check with Jane what time she's expecting us tonight.
The government is determined to check the growth of public spending.
to check your anger/laughter/tears
She wanted to tell him the whole truth but she checked herself—it wasn't the right moment.
Do you want to check your coats?
Check the box next to the right answer.
Please check in at least an hour before departure.
We've checked in at the hotel.
We checked in our luggage and went through to the departure lounge.
He checked into a top London clinic yesterday for an operation on his knee.
Check the names off as the guests arrive.
I'll just go and check on the children.
The local police found her story didn't check out.
Guests should check out of their rooms by noon.
The police are checking out his alibi.
We'll have to check him out before we employ him.
Check out the prices at our new store!
Hey, check out that car!
The book has been checked out in your name.
Check over your work for mistakes.
My parents are always checking up on me.
I need to check up on a few things before I can decide.
Could you give the tyres a check?
a health check
The drugs were found in their car during a routine check by police.
a check for spelling mistakes
I'll just have a quick check to see if the letter's arrived yet.
It is vital to keep a check on your speed (= look at it regularly in order to control it).
The police ran a check on the registration number of the car.
Was any check made on Mr Morris when he applied for the post?
A cold spring will provide a natural check on the number of insects.
Do you prefer checks or stripes?
a check shirt/suit
a yellow and red check skirt
There, you're in check.
'Are you coming for a drink?' 'Can I take a rain check?—I must get this finished tonight.'
'Do you have your tickets?' 'Check.' 'Passport?' 'Check.'
Do you know your check-in time?
(BrE) the check-in desk
(NAmE) the check-in counter
to go for/to have a check-up
a medical/dental/routine/thorough check-up
checked material
a spelling/grammar/virus checker
a quality control checker
His king had been checkmated.
She hoped the plan would checkmate her opponents.
a checkout assistant/operator
At checkout, your bill will be printed for you.
Proceed to checkout.
chubby/rosy/pink cheeks
He kissed her on both cheeks.
Couples were dancing cheek to cheek.
chubby-cheeked/rosy-cheeked/hollow-cheeked
What a cheek!
He had the cheek to ask his ex-girlfriend to babysit for them.
I think they've got a cheek making you pay to park the car.
You cheeky monkey!
a cheeky grin
You're getting far too cheeky!
Why are you so rude to your mother?
It's rude to speak when you're eating.
Some people said he had been disrespectful to the President in his last speech.
Some people think it is impolite to ask someone's age.
Don't be impertinent!
He didn't wish to appear discourteous.
A great cheer went up from the crowd.
cheers of encouragement
Three cheers for the winners!(= used when you are asking a group of people to cheer three times, in order to congratulate sb, etc.)
We all cheered as the team came on to the field.
Cheering crowds greeted their arrival.
The crowd cheered the President as he drove slowly by.
She was cheered by the news from home.
He came on stage amid clapping and cheering.
The results of the test were very cheering.
Oh, come on—cheer up!
Give Mary a call; she needs cheering up.
Bright curtains can cheer up a dull room.
You're not your usual cheerful self today.
a cheerful, hard-working employee
a cheerful smile/voice
a bright, cheerful restaurant
walls painted in cheerful (= light and bright) colours
a chatty, cheerful letter
to laugh/nod/whistle cheerfully
I could cheerfully have killed him when he said that (= I would have liked to).
She cheerfully admitted that she had no experience at all (= she wasn't afraid to do so).
a cheery remark/smile/wave
He left with a cheery 'See you again soon'.
Cheerio! I'll see you later.
a cheerleading squad/team
the President's continued cheerleading for the 'strong dollar'
a dark and cheerless room
'Have another biscuit.' 'Cheers.'
Cheers then. See you later.
Cheddar cheese
goat's cheese (= made from the milk of a goat )
a cheese sandwich/salad
a chunk/piece/slice of cheese
a selection of French cheeses
a cheese knife (= a knife with a special curved blade with two points on the end, used for cutting and picking up pieces of cheese)
a strawberry cheesecake
Is there any cheesecake left?
a cheesy horror movie
a cheesy love song
She had a cheesy grin on her face.
the chief cause/problem/reason
one of the President's chief rivals
the Chief Education Officer
the chief financial officer of the company
Detective Chief Inspector Williams
commander-in-chief
army/industry/police chiefs
Chief Buthelezi
Chief Crazy Horse
the environmental cost of driving a Chelsea tractor
a chemical element
the chemical industry
chemical reactions/processes
The raw sewage is chemically treated.
a degree in chemistry
the university's chemistry department
inorganic/organic chemistry
the chemistry of copper
The patient's blood chemistry was monitored regularly.
sexual chemistry
The chemistry just wasn't right.
You can obtain the product from all good chemists.
Take this prescription to the chemist's.
I'll get it at the chemist's.
a chemist's/chemist shop
a research chemist
a chenille sweater
a cheque for £50
to write a cheque
to make a cheque out to sb
to pay by cheque
to cash a cheque (= to get or give money for a cheque)
Children need to be cherished.
her most cherished possession
Cherish the memory of those days in Paris.
cherry blossom
a winter-flowering cherry
cherry lips
a cherubic face (= looking round and innocent, like a small child's)
Alex plays chess as a hobby.
The bullet hit him in the chest.
She gasped for breath, her chest heaving.
a chest infection
chest pains
a hairy chest
flat-chested
broad-chested
a medicine chest
a treasure chest
roast chestnuts
After the operation you may find it difficult to chew and swallow.
teeth designed for chewing meat
He is always chewing gum.
Rosa chewed on her lip and stared at the floor.
The dog was chewing on a bone.
to chew your nails
He got chewed out by the boss for lying.
I spent a pleasant evening chez the Stewarts.
She is always so chic, so elegant.
a chic new restaurant
a perfectly dressed woman with an air of chic that was unmistakably French
They keep chickens in the back yard.
free-range chickens
fried/roast chicken
chicken stock/soup
chicken breasts/livers/thighs
chicken and chips
to catch/get/have chickenpox
She chided herself for being so impatient with the children.
'Isn't that a bit selfish?' he chided.
Chief Constable Brian Turner
We are chiefly concerned with improving educational standards.
He's travelled widely, chiefly in Africa and Asia.
a child of three/a three-year-old child
men, women and children
an unborn child
not suitable for young children
I lived in London as a child.
a child star
They have three grown-up children.
a support group for adult children of alcoholics
They can't have children.
a child of the 90s
victims of child abuse
women of childbearing age
pregnancy and childbirth
His wife died in childbirth.
childcare facilities for working parents
childhood, adolescence and adulthood
in early childhood
childhood memories/experiences
She had a happy childhood.
childhood cancer
childish handwriting
Don't be so childish!
to behave childishly
a childless couple/marriage
childlike enthusiasm/simplicity/delight
childproof containers for medicines
There's a chill in the air this morning.
A small fire was burning to take the chill off the room.
a chill of fear/apprehension
His words sent a chill down her spine.
They were chilled by the icy wind.
Let's go home, I'm chilled to the bone (= very cold).
Let the pudding chill for an hour until set.
This wine is best served chilled.
chilled foods (= for example in a supermarket)
His words chilled her.
What he saw chilled his blood/chilled him to the bone.
We went home and chilled in front of the TV.
Just chill, Mum, everything's going to be OK.
They sometimes meet up to chill out and watch a movie.
Sit down and chill out!
the chill grey dawn
a chill wind
He's always so stressed out—he really needs to take a chill pill!
Chillax, dude—I'm on your team.
a chilled-out atmosphere
He felt totally chilled.
It's chilly today.
I was feeling chilly.
I'm cold. Turn the heating up.
Outside it was bitterly cold.
a cold wind
hot and cold water
It's cold chicken for lunch.
a long cool drink
We found a cool place to sit.
It's absolutely freezing outside.
I'm freezing!
Bring a coat. It might turn chilly later.
Her coffee was now lukewarm.
a jug of tepid water
The visitors got a chilly reception.
a chilling story
The film evokes chilling reminders of the war.
I heard the clock chime.
Eight o'clock had already chimed.
The clock chimed midday.
He kept chiming in with his own opinions.
'And me!' she chimed in.
His opinions chimed in with the mood of the nation.
door chimes
He threw a bit of paper onto the fire and it flew up the chimney.
the factory chimneys of an industrial landscape
a china vase
She got out the best china.
a chink in the curtains
the chink of glasses
the sound of bottles chinking
We chinked glasses and drank to each other's health.
a pair of chinos
This mug has a chip in it.
chips of wood
chocolate chip cookies (= biscuits containing small pieces of chocolate)
All main courses are served with chips or baked potato.
chip technology
(figurative) The release of prisoners was used as a bargaining chip.
I'm not sure what I'll do when the chips are down.
a badly chipped saucer
She chipped one of her front teeth.
These plates chip easily.
Chip away the damaged area.
The fossils had been chipped out of the rock.
He was chipping away at the stone.
(figurative) They chipped away at the power of the government (= gradually made it weaker).
Pete and Anne chipped in with suggestions.
'That's different,' she chipped in.
If everyone chips in we'll be able to buy her a really nice present.
We each chipped in (with) £5.
He chipped off a piece of his tooth.
The paint had chipped off.
Chip and PIN is designed to combat credit card fraud.
Chip cards will be the money of the future.
A name was chiselled into the stone.
She was chiselling some marble.
a chive and garlic dressing
He chivvied them into the car.
a chlorination plant
a box of chocs
a box of choccies
The shelves were chock-a-block with ornaments.
It was chock-a-block in town today (= full of people).
a bar/piece of chocolate
a chocolate factory
a box of chocolates
a mug of drinking chocolate
a chocolate-box village
women forced to make a choice between family and career
We are faced with a difficult choice.
We aim to help students make more informed career choices.
He had no choice but to leave (= this was the only thing he could do).
She's going to do it. She doesn't have much choice, really, does she?
This government is committed to extending parental choice in education.
She's the obvious choice for the job.
Hawaii remains a popular choice for winter vacation travel.
This colour wasn't my first choice.
She wouldn't be my choice as manager.
Which one's your favourite?
Tastes and preferences vary from individual to individual.
A selection of reader's comments are published below.
She was his pick for best actress.
The menu has a good choice of desserts.
There wasn't much choice of colour.
It's the software of choice for business use.
First prize will be a meal for two at the restaurant of your choice.
She summed up the situation in a few choice phrases.
He used some pretty choice language.
She sings in the school choir.
She almost choked to death in the thick fumes.
He was choking on a piece of toast.
Very small toys can choke a baby.
He may have been choked or poisoned.
His voice was choking with rage.
Despair choked her words.
'I can't bear it,' he said in a choked voice.
The pond was choked with rotten leaves.
The roads are choked up with traffic.
to choke back tears/anger/sobs
High prices have choked off demand.
Her screams were suddenly choked off.
He choked out a reply.
'I hate you!' she choked out.
She choked up when she began to talk about her mother.
She was chomping away on a bagel.
He chomped his way through two hot dogs.
You choose, I can't decide.
There are plenty of restaurants to choose from.
She had to choose between staying in the UK or going home.
Sarah chose her words carefully.
This site has been chosen for the new school.
We have to choose a new manager from a shortlist of five candidates.
He chose banking as a career.
We chose Phil McSweeney as/for chairperson.
You'll have to choose whether to buy it or not.
We chose to go by train.
We chose Phil McSweeney to be chairperson.
You choose—I can't decide.
He was selected for the team.
a randomly selected sample of 23 schools
She picked the best cake for herself.
We're still trying to decide on a venue.
After graduating she opted for a career in music.
After a lot of thought, I opted against buying a motorbike.
I think I'll go for the fruit salad.
Employees can retire at 60 if they choose.
Many people choose not to marry.
You have to take any job you can get—you can't pick and choose.
I'm very choosy about my clothes.
He was chopping logs for firewood.
Add the finely chopped onions.
Chop the carrots up into small pieces.
(figurative) The country was chopped up into small administrative areas.
The share price was chopped from 50 pence to 20 pence.
He chopped a branch off the tree.
(informal) Anne Boleyn had her head chopped off.
a pork/lamb chop
a karate chop
The dog sat licking its chops.
He has the acting chops to carry a major film.
The whole department has been given the chop.
Three more schemes have got the chop.
Chop-chop! We haven't got all day!
choppy waters
choral music
The speaker had obviously struck a chord with his audience.
doing the household/domestic chores
Shopping's a real chore for me.
(figurative) There was some carefully choreographed flag-waving as the President drove by.
Gill chortled with delight.
Everyone joined in the chorus.
the Hallelujah Chorus
the Bath Festival Chorus
the chorus line (= a line of singers and dancers performing together)
a chorus of praise/complaint
a chorus of voices calling for her resignation
'Thank you,' they said in chorus.
'Hello, Paul,' they chorused.
chicken chow mein
clam chowder
Chandni Chowk
For Chrissake, listen!
Christ! Look at the time—I'm late!
The child was christened Mary.
Did you have your children christened?
This area has been christened 'Britain's last wilderness'.
They christened the boat 'Oceania'.
the Christian Church/faith/religion
She had a Christian upbringing.
a Christian country
the Christian sector of the city
Only 10% of the population are now practising Christians.
We're all on Christian-name terms here.
Christmas dinner/presents
the Christmas holidays/vacation
Are you spending Christmas with your family?
Happy Christmas!
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
We put up the decorations and the tree and started to feel Christmassy at last.
chromium-plated steel
chromosomal abnormalities
chronic bronchitis/arthritis/asthma
the country's chronic unemployment problem
a chronic shortage of housing in rural areas
a chronic alcoholic/depressive
The film was just chronic.
a hospital for the chronically ill
the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle
Her latest novel is a chronicle of life in a Devon village.
Her achievements are chronicled in a new biography out this week.
chronological
The facts should be presented in chronological order.
Historians seem to have confused the chronology of these events.
a chronology of Mozart's life
chubby cheeks/fingers/hands
He chucked the paper in a drawer.
Chuck me the newspaper, would you?
You haven't chucked your job!
I'm going to chuck it all in (= give up my job) and go abroad.
Has he chucked her?
That's no good—just chuck it.
Those old clothes can be chucked out.
They got chucked off the bus.
You can't just chuck him out.
What's up with you, chuck?
She chuckled at the memory.
She gave a chuckle of delight.
The whole chuffing world's gone mad.
The boat chugged down the river.
an old school chum
Don't be such a chump!
a chunk of cheese/masonry
I've already written a fair chunk of the article.
a chunky gold bracelet
(BrE) a chunky sweater
a squat chunky man
chunky marmalade
a church tower
The procession moved into the church.
church services
How often do you go to church?
(BrE) They're at church (= attending a church service).
(NAmE) They're in church.
Church is at 9 o'clock.
When do the children finish school?
I'll meet you outside the school.
Her husband spent three years in prison.
the Catholic Church
the Free Churches
The Church has a duty to condemn violence.
the conflict between Church and State
to go into the Church (= to become a Christian minister)
It would be churlish to refuse such a generous offer.
The water churned beneath the huge ship.
Vast crowds had churned the field into a sea of mud.
My stomach churned as the names were read out.
Conflicting emotions churned inside him.
a water chute (= at a swimming pool)
a laundry/rubbish/garbage chute (= from the upper floors of a high building)
dry/sweet cider
cider apples
a cider press (= for squeezing the juice from apples)
cigar smoke
a packet/pack of cigarettes
to light a cigarette
The first question is a cinch.
He's a cinch to win the race.
a cinder track (= a track for runners made with finely crushed cinders)
For years radio has been the Cinderella of the media world.
a cine camera/film/photographer
the local cinema
I used to go to the cinema every week.
one of the great successes of British cinema
cinematic effects/techniques
a message in cipher
born circa 150 BC
The race ended with eight laps of a city centre circuit.
The earth takes a year to make a circuit of (= go around) the sun.
an electrical circuit
a circuit diagram (= one showing all the connections in the different parts of the circuit )
the women's tennis circuit
the lecture/cabaret circuit
a circuit court/judge
Cut out two circles of paper.
Draw a circle.
She walked the horse round in a circle.
a circle of trees/chairs
The children stood in a circle.
We had seats in the circle.
the family circle
She's well known in theatrical circles.
a large circle of friends
Seagulls circled around above his head.
The plane circled the airport to burn up excess fuel.
Spelling mistakes are circled in red ink.
When your way of life is threatened, you have to circle the wagons and defend yourself.
a circular building
a circular tour of the city
There is a dangerous circularity about this argument.
The condition prevents the blood from circulating freely.
Cooled air is circulated throughout the building.
Rumours began to circulate about his financial problems.
The document will be circulated to all members.
Regular exercise will improve blood circulation.
to have good/bad circulation
the circulation of money/information/ideas
A number of forged tickets are in circulation.
The coins were taken out of circulation.
Copies of the magazine were withdrawn from circulation.
Anne has been ill but now she's back in circulation.
I was out of circulation for months after the baby was born.
a daily circulation of more than one million
the circumference of the earth
The earth is almost 25 000 miles in circumference.
The power of the monarchy was circumscribed by the new law.
The company reserves the right to cancel this agreement in certain circumstances.
changing social and political circumstances
I know I can trust her in any circumstance.
Police said there were no suspicious circumstances surrounding the boy's death.
She never discovered the true circumstances of her birth.
Grants are awarded according to your financial circumstances.
family/domestic/personal circumstances
a victim of circumstance (= a person who has suffered because of a situation that they cannot control)
He had to leave the country through force of circumstance (= events made it necessary).
Under the circumstances, it seemed better not to tell him about the accident.
She did the job very well in the circumstances.
Under no circumstances should you lend Paul any money.
Don't open the door, in any circumstances.
circumstantial evidence
The case against him was largely circumstantial.
Their problems were circumstantial rather than personal.
They found a way of circumventing the law.
We took the children to the circus.
A media circus surrounded the royal couple wherever they went.
the American electoral circus
Piccadilly Circus
(figurative) citadels of private economic power
a citation for bravery
Space does not permit the citation of the examples.
The judge issued a contempt citation against the woman for violating a previous court order.
He cited his heavy workload as the reason for his breakdown.
Nobody mentioned anything to me about it.
I promised not to refer to the matter again.
Witnesses spoke of a great ball of flame.
He cited his heavy workload as the reason for his breakdown.
Can you quote me an instance of when this happened?
She was cited in the divorce proceedings.
He was cited for bravery.
the city centre
one of the world's most beautiful cities
a major city
the country's capital city
Mexico City
the city of York
The city turned out to welcome the victorious team home.
a City stockbroker
What is the City's reaction to the cut in interest rates?
It's not exactly fun city here is it?
his citified surroundings
She's Italian by birth but is now an Australian citizen.
British citizens living in other parts of the European Union
the citizens of Budapest
When you're old, people treat you like a second-class citizen.
citizen journalism websites
French citizenship
You can apply for citizenship after five years' residency.
an education that prepares young people for citizenship
a citric flavour
citrus fruit/trees/growers
fabric in bright citrus shades (= orange, yellow or green)
civic buildings/leaders
a sense of civic pride (= pride that people feel for their town or city)
civic duties/responsibilities
Atlanta Civic Center
civil unrest (= that is caused by groups of people within a country)
a civil marriage ceremony
a civil court
She greeted him civilly but with no sign of affection.
the civil rights leader Martin Luther King
the Spanish Civil War
30 years of bitter civil war
He left the army and returned to civilian life.
the technology of modern civilization
The Victorians regarded the railways as bringing progress and civilization.
the civilizations of ancient Greece and Rome
diseases that are common in Western civilization
Environmental damage threatens the whole of civilization.
It's good to be back in civilization after two weeks in a tent!
The girls in a class tend to have a civilizing influence on the boys.
Staff members are trained to treat customers with civility at all times.
the civilized world
rising crime in our so-called civilized societies
civilized peoples
No civilized country should allow such terrible injustices.
We couldn't even have a civilized conversation any more.
Breakfast on the terrace—how civilized!
75cl
Her heels clacked on the marble floor.
the clack of high heels on the floor
the clack of her knitting needles
She was clad in blue velvet.
warmly/scantily clad
leather-clad motorcyclists
snow-clad hills
She gave me clear and precise directions.
Are these instructions clear enough?
You'll do as you're told, is that clear?
This behaviour must stop—do I make myself clear (= express myself clearly so there is no doubt about what I mean)?
I hope I made it clear to him that he was no longer welcome here.
This is a clear case of fraud.
She won the election by a clear majority.
His height gives him a clear advantage.
It is not clear what they want us to do.
There is clear evidence that TV advertising influences what children buy.
It is clear from numerous studies that TV advertising influences what children buy.
Recent research demonstrates that TV advertising influences children's spending habits.
Many parents think that TV advertising influences their children. This view is supported by the findings of a recent study, which show a clear link between television advertisements and children's spending habits.
The findings also reveal that most children are unaware of the persuasive purpose of advertising.
There is little evidence that children understand the persuasive intent of advertising.
The results contradict claims that advertising is unrelated to children's spending habits.
Manufacturers argue that it is difficult to prove that advertising alone influences what children buy.
Are you clear about the arrangements for tomorrow?
My memory is not clear on that point.
I'm still not clear what the job involves.
We need a clear understanding of the problems involved.
I'm sorry, I didn't quite understand.
Would you mind explaining that again? I'm not sure that I've understood correctly.
Sorry, I don't quite follow (you).
Can I just check that I've got this right?
I'm not quite/exactly clear about/really sure what I'm supposed to do.
Sorry, could you repeat that? I didn't hear what you said.
Sorry, would you mind repeating what you just said?
If I understand you correctly, you want me to phone the customer and apologise?
Do you mean (to say) that the deal's off?
What exactly are you saying?
So you're saying that the meeting's cancelled?
Sorry, did you mean that I should wait here or come back later?
Can you just confirm your date of birth for me, please?
a clear thinker
You'll need to keep a clear head for your interview.
The photo wasn't very clear.
The voice on the phone was clear and strong.
She was in Australia but I could hear her voice as clear as a bell.
The water was so clear we could see the bottom of the lake.
clear glass
a clear colourless liquid
a clear blue sky
On a clear day you can see France.
clear skin
a clear complexion
The road was clear and I ran over.
All exits must be kept clear of baggage.
You won't get a clear view of the stage from here.
I always leave a clear desk at the end of the day.
They were still not clear of all suspicion.
We are finally clear of debt.
The plane climbed until it was clear of the clouds.
Make sure you park your car clear of the entrance.
Allow three clear days for the letter to arrive.
They had made a clear profit of £2 000.
The message is coming through loud and clear.
I had cleared my desk before I left.
It was several hours before the road was cleared after the accident.
It's your turn to clear the table (= to take away the dirty plates, etc. after a meal).
She cleared a space on the sofa for him to sit down.
I cleared my desk of papers.
The streets had been cleared of snow.
Clear all those papers off the desk.
The remains of the snow had been cleared from the streets.
After the bomb warning, police cleared the streets.
The traffic took a long time to clear after the accident.
The boy's lungs cleared and he began to breathe more easily.
The muddy water slowly cleared.
The mist will clear by mid-morning.
The sky cleared after the storm.
The rain is clearing slowly.
As her mind cleared, she remembered what had happened.
I went for a walk to clear my head.
She was cleared of all charges against her.
Throughout his years in prison, he fought to clear his name.
His appointment had been cleared by the board.
I'll have to clear it with the manager.
The plane had been cleared for take-off.
to clear goods through customs
She hasn't been cleared by security.
Cheques usually take three working days to clear.
She cleared £1 000 on the deal.
The horse cleared the fence easily.
The car only just cleared (= avoided hitting) the gatepost.
The ruling could clear the way for extradition proceedings.
He cleared away and made coffee.
It's time your toys were cleared away.
He cleared off when he heard the police siren.
You've no right to be here. Clear off!
He cleared out with all the money and left her with the kids.
to clear out a drawer/room
We cleared out all our old clothes.
I found the letters when I was clearing out after my father died.
I hope it clears up this afternoon.
Has your rash cleared up yet?
It's time to clear up.
I'm fed up with clearing up after you!
Clear up your own mess!
to clear up a mystery/difficulty/misunderstanding
Stand clear of the train doors.
He injured his arm as he jumped clear of the car.
By lap two Walker was two metres clear of the rest of the runners.
She could see clear down the highway into the town.
Small builders cannot see their way clear to take on many trainees.
It seems that the original suspect is in the clear.
Please speak clearly after the tone.
She explained everything very clearly.
Clearly, this will cost a lot more than we realized.
He claims (that) he was not given a fair hearing.
I don't claim to be an expert.
Scientists are claiming a major breakthrough in the fight against cancer.
It was claimed that some doctors were working 80 hours a week.
A lot of lost property is never claimed.
He claimed political asylum.
He's not entitled to claim unemployment benefit.
She claimed damages from the company for the injury she had suffered.
You could have claimed the cost of the hotel room from your insurance.
You can claim on your insurance for that coat you left on the train.
A most unwelcome event claimed his attention.
She has finally claimed a place on the team.
The car crash claimed three lives.
You can claim back the tax on your purchases.
The singer has denied the magazine's claim that she is leaving the band.
They had no claim on the land.
She has more claim to the book's success than anybody (= she deserves to be praised for it).
You can make a claim on your insurance policy.
to put in a claim for an allowance
a claim for £2 000
Make sure your claims for expenses are submitted by the end of the month.
a three per cent pay claim
Complete a claim form (= an official document which you must use in order to request money from an organization).
His main claim to fame is that he went to school with the Prime Minister.
I make no claim to understand modern art.
Adams staked his claim for a place in the Olympic team with his easy win yesterday.
to consult a clairvoyant
clam chowder/soup
The children clambered up the steep bank.
His skin felt cold and clammy.
clammy hands
People began to clamour for his resignation.
Everyone was clamouring to know how much they would get.
'Play with us!' the children clamoured.
the clamour of the market
The clamour for her resignation grew louder.
Clamp one end of the plank to the edge of the table.
Clamp the two halves together until the glue dries.
He had a cigar clamped between his teeth.
She clamped a pair of headphones over her ears.
Her lips clamped tightly together.
He clamped his mouth shut.
a campaign by police to clamp down on street crime
The army clamped a curfew on the city.
a clampdown on drinking and driving
a clamshell phone
the Macleod clan
clan warfare
one of a growing clan of stars who have left Hollywood
a clandestine meeting/relationship
Bells were clanging in the tower.
The gates clanged shut.
The trams clanged their way along the streets.
He clanged a spoon against a glass.
Mentioning her ex-husband was a bit of a clanger.
He was always dropping clangers (= making embarrassing mistakes or remarks).
clanking chains
I heard a door clank shut.
The guard clanked his heavy ring of keys.
The audience cheered and clapped.
Everyone clapped us when we went up to get our prize.
Everyone clapped in time to the music.
She clapped her hands in delight.
He clapped his hands for silence.
'Oh dear!' she cried, clapping a hand over her mouth.
to clap sb in irons/jail/prison
I could hear the sound of clapping from the other room.
I haven't clapped eyes on them for weeks.
I hope I never set eyes on this place again!
Give him a clap!(= to praise sb at the end of a performance)
a clap of thunder
Can you persuade the man on the Clapham omnibus that it is useful?
The van's totally clapped out.
a clapped-out old Mini
to run/ride/drive like the clappers
to clarify a situation/problem/issue
I hope this clarifies my position.
She asked him to clarify what he meant.
It is important to clarify what is meant by climate change.
Climate change can / may be defined as 'the long-term fluctuations in temperature, precipitation, wind and other aspects of the earth's climate'.
A generally accepted definition of global warming is the gradual increase in the overall temperature of the earth's atmosphere due to the greenhouse effect.
The greenhouse effect is defined by the author as the process by which heat from the sun is trapped in the earth's atmosphere, causing the temperature of the earth to rise.
The author uses the term climate change to refer to any significant change in measures of climate lasting for an extended period.
The term 'carbon footprint' refers to the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere as a result of the activities of an individual or organization.
Scientists suggest that increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere will result in an increase in global temperatures, and the term 'global warming' is used to describe this phenomenon.
clarified butter
I am seeking clarification of the regulations.
a lack of clarity in the law
clarity of thought/purpose/vision
the clarity of sound on a CD
a head-on clash between the two leaders over education policy
a clash of interests/opinions/cultures
a personality clash with the boss
a clash in the timetable/schedule
a clash of cymbals/swords
Bayern's clash with Roma in the Champions League
The two sets of supporters clashed outside the stadium.
The two teams clash in tomorrow's final.
The leaders and members clashed on the issue.
The leaders clashed with party members on the issue.
His left-wing views clashed with his father's politics.
His views and his father's clashed.
They have clashing personalities.
Unfortunately your party clashes with a wedding I'm going to.
There are two good movies on TV tonight, but they clash.
The wallpaper clashes with the carpet.
The wallpaper and the carpet clash.
The long blades clashed together.
She clashed the cymbals.
a classic novel/study/goal
a classic example of poor communication
She displayed the classic symptoms of depression.
I made the classic mistake of clapping in a pause in the music!
a classic grey suit
classic design
classic cars (= cars which are no longer made, but which are still popular)
a classic movie/work
a classic example/mistake
classic design
a classical composer
a classical theory
a classical scholar
classical mythology
She's not going to help? Oh, that's classic!
English classics such as 'Alice in Wonderland'
The novel may become a modern classic.
That match was a classic.
a degree in Classics
the classical economics of Smith and Ricardo
the classical theory of unemployment
classical and modern ballet
classical studies
a classical scholar (= an expert in Latin and Greek)
He plays classical music, as well as pop and jazz.
a classical composer/violinist
These are classical examples of food allergy.
classical Arabic
the classical elegance of the design
Her face is classically beautiful.
a classically trained singer
He leaned forward, his hands clasped tightly together.
They clasped hands (= held each other's hands).
I stood there, clasping the door handle.
He clasped her to him.
She clasped the bracelet around her wrist.
the clasp of a necklace/handbag
He took her hand in his firm warm clasp.
We were in the same class at school.
She is the youngest in her class.
He came top of the class.
The whole class was/were told to stay behind after school.
I was late for a class.
See me after class.
She works hard in class (= during the class).
I have a history class at 9 o'clock.
I've been taking classes in pottery.
Are you still doing your French evening class?
the class of 2008
the working/middle/upper class
The party tries to appeal to all classes of society.
the professional classes
differences of class, race or gender
the class system
a society in which class is more important than ability
It was good accommodation for a hotel of this class.
different classes of drugs
Dickens was in a different class from (= was much better than) most of his contemporaries.
As a jazz singer she's in a class of her own (= better than most others).
She has class all right—she looks like a model.
There's a real touch of class about this team.
He always travels business class.
The first-class compartment is situated at the front of the train.
a first-/second-/third-class degree
Immigrant workers were classed as aliens.
a class player/performer
She's a real class act.
a classy player
a classy hotel/restaurant
The information was not easily classifiable.
top-secret or classifiable information
a style of music that defies classification (= is like no other)
classified information/documents/material
a classified catalogue
The books in the library are classified according to subject.
Patients are classified into three categories.
Only eleven of these accidents were classified as major.
Will Britain ever become a classless society?
a classless accent
classroom activities
the use of computers in the classroom
He dropped the knife and it clattered on the stone floor.
Her cup clattered in the saucer.
The cart clattered over the cobbles.
She heard him clattering around downstairs.
the clatter of horses' hoofs
In the sentence 'They often go to Italy because they love the food', 'They often go to Italy' is the main clause and 'because they love the food' is a subordinate clause.
to suffer from claustrophobia
She felt she had to escape from the claustrophobia of family life.
the claustrophobic atmosphere of the room
to feel claustrophobic
the claws of a crab
Wait until the media gets its claws into her.
nature, red in tooth and claw
The cat was clawing at the leg of the chair.
She had clawed Stephen across the face.
(figurative) His hands clawed the air.
She clawed her way to the top of her profession.
Slowly, he clawed his way out from under the collapsed building.
clayey soil
Are your hands clean?
to wipe sth clean
The hotel was spotlessly (= extremely) clean.
(BrE) It is your responsibility to keep the room clean and tidy.
(NAmE) Keep your room neat and clean.
I can't find a clean shirt (= one I haven't worn since it was washed).
Cats are very clean animals.
clean drinking water
clean air
cleaner cars (= not producing so many harmful substances)
a clean sheet of paper
The entertainment was good clean fun for the whole family.
Keep the jokes clean please!
The sport has a very clean image.
a clean driving licence/driver's license
a clean police record
The police searched her but she was clean.
It was a tough but clean game.
A sharp knife makes a clean cut.
a modern design with clean lines and a bright appearance
The plane made a clean take-off.
The wine has a clean taste and a lovely golden colour.
China made a clean sweep of the medals in the gymnastics events.
The opinion poll suggests a clean sweep for the Democrats.
Since leaving prison, he's managed to keep his nose clean.
to clean the windows/bath/floor
to clean a wound
Have you cleaned your teeth?
The villa is cleaned twice a week.
I spent all day cooking and cleaning.
This oven cleans easily (= is easy to clean).
This coat is filthy. I'll have it cleaned.
This coat is filthy. I'll have it cleaned(= dry-cleaned).
He quickly washed his hands and face.
These jeans need washing.
Make sure you rinse all the soap out.
The new manager said he wanted to clean house.
All the equipment should be cleaned down regularly.
I cleaned the mud off my shoes.
I must clean the fish tank out.
Paying for all those drinks has cleaned me out.
The burglars totally cleaned her out.
This film should clean up at the box offices.
I need to change and clean up.
Go and clean yourself up.
You'd better get cleaned up.
He always expected other people to clean up after him (= when he had made the place dirty or untidy).
Who's going to clean up this mess?
to clean up beaches after an oil spillage
The new mayor is determined to clean up the city.
Soccer needs to clean up its image.
The thief got clean away.
I clean forgot about calling him.
Isn't it time the government came clean about their plans for education?
The house needed a good clean.
Simon's clean-cut good looks
a clean-limbed model
the clean-up of the river
a clean-up campaign
an office cleaner
a vacuum cleaner
a bottle of kitchen cleaner
Can you pick up my suit from the cleaner's?
Our team got taken to the cleaners.
They pay someone to do the cleaning.
The boat moved cleanly through the water.
fuel that burns cleanly
Some people are obsessive about cleanliness.
a cleansing cream
There is no clear-cut answer to this question.
have a clear-out
a massive clear-up operation
forest clearances
slum clearance (= the removal of houses that are in very bad condition in an area of a town)
a clearance sale (= in a shop/store, when goods are sold cheaply to get rid of them quickly)
There is not much clearance for vehicles passing under this bridge.
a clearance of one metre
I'm waiting for clearance from headquarters.
All employees at the submarine base require security clearance.
The pilot was waiting for clearance for take-off.
She got into university through clearing.
You can apply for a place through the clearing system.
The university has a limited number of clearing places this year.
She cleaved his skull (in two) with an axe.
(figurative) His skin was cleft with deep lines.
a ship cleaving through the water
The huge boat cleaved the darkness.
Her tongue clove to the roof of her mouth.
to cleave to a belief/idea
the treble/bass clef
a cleft in the rocks
a plea for clemency
He clenched his fists in anger.
Through clenched teeth she told him to leave.
His fists clenched slowly until his knuckles were white.
Her pen was clenched between her teeth.
All the local clergy were asked to attend the ceremony.
The new proposals affect both clergy and laity.
Muslim clerics
clerical workers/staff/assistants
a clerical error (= one made in copying or calculating sth)
a clerical collar (= one that fastens at the back, worn by some priests)
an office clerk
the Town Clerk
the Clerk of the Court
The clerk at the counter gave me too little change.
a clerking job
a clever child
Clever girl!
How clever of you to work it out!
He's too clever by half, if you ask me (= it annoys me or makes me suspicious).
She's clever at getting what she wants.
He's clever with his hands.
a clever little gadget
What a clever idea!
That wasn't very clever (= what you just did wasn't sensible), was it?
Don't you get clever with me!
She trotted out the old cliché that 'a trouble shared is a trouble halved.'
a clichéd view of upper-class life
The cameras clicked away.
The bolt clicked into place.
The door clicked shut.
He clicked his fingers at the waiter.
Polly clicked her tongue in annoyance.
Click the OK button to start.
I clicked on the link to the next page of the website.
To run a window, just double-click on the icon.
Suddenly it clicked —we'd been talking about different people.
It all clicked into place.
We met at a party and clicked immediately.
He's never really clicked with his students.
The team don't seem to have clicked yet.
The door closed with a click.
click languages
The number of click-throughs to the site has increased in recent weeks.
Unfortunately, the advert is still achieving a low click-through rate.
The click-throughs on the site to other companies aren't always very useful.
a clickjacking attack
a lawyer with many famous clients
to act on behalf of a client
Social workers must always consider the best interests of their clients.
an international clientele
the cliff edge/top
a castle perched high on the cliffs above the river
The first part of the serial ended with a real cliffhanger.
a mild/temperate/warm/wet climate
the harsh climate of the Arctic regions
They wanted to move to a warmer climate.
the present political climate
the current climate of opinion (= what people generally are thinking about a particular issue)
a climate of suspicion/violence
We need to create a climate in which business can prosper.
the threat of global climate change
climatic changes/conditions
to come to/reach a climax
the climax of his political career
The festival will climax on Sunday with a gala concert.
(especially NAmE) The sensational verdict climaxed a six-month trial.
to climb a mountain/hill/tree/wall
She climbed up the stairs.
The car slowly climbed the hill.
As they climbed higher, the air became cooler.
I climbed through the window.
Sue climbed into bed.
Can you climb down?
The boys climbed over the wall.
He likes to go climbing most weekends.
The plane climbed to 33 000 feet.
From here the path climbs steeply to the summit.
a climbing rose
The dollar has been climbing all week.
The paper's circulation continues to climb.
In a few years he had climbed to the top of his profession.
The team has now climbed to fourth in the league.
an exhausting climb
It's an hour's climb to the summit.
Titan's Wall is the mountain's hardest rock climb.
the dollar's climb against the euro
a rapid climb to stardom
the long slow climb out of the recession
The Chancellor was forced into a humiliating climbdown on his economic policies.
climbers and hill walkers
Monkeys are efficient climbers.
to go climbing
a climbing accident
I'm heading for sunnier climes next month.
to clinch an argument/a deal/a victory
'I'll pay your airfare.' 'Okay, that clinches it —I'll come with you.'
a clinching argument
clinical research (= done on patients, not just considering theory)
clinical training (= the part of a doctor's training done in a hospital)
clinical trials of a drug
He watched her suffering with clinical detachment.
clinically dead (= judged to be dead from the condition of the body)
clinically depressed
survivors clinging to a raft
She clung on to her baby.
Cling on tight!
They clung together, shivering with cold.
a dress that clings (= fits closely and shows the shape of your body)
The wet shirt clung to his chest.
The smell of smoke still clung to her clothes.
After her mother's death, Sara clung to her aunt more than ever.
Throughout the trial she had clung to the belief that he was innocent.
He had one last hope to cling on to.
She managed to cling on to life for another couple of years.
a clinging child
the local family planning clinic
The antenatal clinic is on Wednesdays.
He is being treated at the London clinic.
a rehabilitation clinic for alcoholics
a coaching clinic for young tennis players
clinking coins
They clinked glasses and drank to each other's health.
The singer hit a clinker.
a hair clip
toe clips on a bicycle
a diamond clip
He gave the hedge a clip.
Here is a clip from her latest movie.
She gave him a clip round the ear for being cheeky.
He clipped the microphone (on) to his collar.
Clip the pages together.
Do those earrings clip on?
to clip a hedge
He clipped off a length of wire.
The car clipped the kerb as it turned.
She clipped the ball into the net.
to clip a coupon (out of the paper)
She clipped two seconds off her previous best time.
clip-on earrings
his clipped military tones
a pair of clippers
hedge/nail clippings
He found the school very cliquey and elitist.
Cllr Michael Booth
They left under the cloak of darkness.
The hills were cloaked in thick mist.
The meeting was cloaked in mystery.
a tall cloaked figure (= a person wearing a cloak )
The paper got clobbered with libel damages of half a million pounds.
We got clobbered in the game on Saturday.
It was ten past six by the kitchen clock.
The clock struck twelve/midnight.
The clock is fast/slow.
The clock has stopped.
the clock face (= the front part of a clock with the numbers on)
The hands of the clock crept slowly around.
Ellen heard the loud ticking of the clock in the hall.
a used car with 20 000 miles on the clock
I wish we could turn the clock back two years and give the marriage another chance.
The new censorship law will turn the clock back 50 years.
He clocked 10.09 seconds in the 100 metres final.
The police clocked her doing over 100 miles an hour.
Wind gusts at 80 m.p.h. were clocked at Rapid City.
I clocked her in the driving mirror.
On the trip we clocked up over 1 800 miles.
He has clocked up more than 25 years on the committee.
This machine has a clock speed of 2.6GHz.
Turn the key clockwise.
a clockwise direction
clockwork toys (= toys that you wind up with a key)
The narrow streets were clogged with traffic.
Tears clogged her throat.
Within a few years the pipes began to clog up.
a cloistered life
the cloistered world of the university
A team from the UK were the first to successfully clone an animal.
Dolly, the cloned sheep
Would anyone mind if I closed the window?
She closed the gate behind her.
It's dark now—let's close the curtains.
I closed my eyes against the bright light.
The doors open and close automatically.
to close a book/an umbrella
The museum has been closed for renovation.
The road was closed to traffic for two days.
What time does the bank close?
We close for lunch between twelve and two.
The club was closed by the police.
The hospital closed at the end of last year.
The play closed after just three nights.
The meeting will close at 10.00 p.m.
The offer closes at the end of the week.
to close a meeting/debate
to close a case/an investigation
to close an account (= to stop keeping money in a bank account)
The subject is now closed (= we will not discuss it again).
What time do the banks close/shut?
A strike has shut the factory.
The store is closed/shut today.
a closed window
The road is closed because of the snow.
I'm afraid time is running out/we're running out of time, so we'll have to make this the final question.
We've only got a couple of minutes left, so can we summarize what we've agreed?
I'd like to close the session with a few final remarks…
We'll have to leave it there, but thank you all very much for your input.
Well, that's all we have time for today, but we'll meet again on Tuesday.
I'd like to thank you all for coming and for a very productive meeting.
Shares in the company closed at 265p.
closing prices
These measures are aimed at closing the gap between rich and poor.
The gap between the two top teams is closing all the time.
She closed her hand over his.
Her hand closed over his.
The factory closed its doors for the last time in 2009.
It's not unusual for the police to close ranks when one of their officers is being investigated.
She was careful not to close the door on the possibility of further talks.
She decided to shut her ears to all the rumours.
I've made this trip so often, I could do it with my eyes shut.
All the steelworks around here were closed down in the 1980s.
They huddled around the fire as the night closed in.
The lions closed in on their prey.
The entrance to the train station was closed off following the explosion.
The band closes the album out with an instrumental track.
A rock concert closed out the festivities.
The water closed over his head.
She closed up when I asked about her family.
Why don't we close up and go out for lunch?
Can the last one out close up the office?
Traffic was heavy and cars were closing up behind each other.
Every time he tried to speak, his throat closed up with fear.
at the close of the 17th century
His life was drawing to a close.
Can we bring this meeting to a close?
Our new house is close to the school.
I had no idea the beach was so close.
The two buildings are close together.
This is the closest we can get to the beach by car.
We all have to work in close proximity (= near each other).
The President was shot at close range (= from a short distance away).
The children are close to each other in age.
Their birthdays are very close together.
the near future
a near neighbour
a near miss
a close contest
a close encounter
a close call
a close friend
close family
close links
He was close to tears.
The new library is close to completion.
She knew she was close to death.
We are close to signing the agreement.
Jo is a very close friend.
She is very close to her father.
She and her father are very close.
We're a very close family.
close relatives, such as your mother and father, and brothers and sisters
He is one of the prime minister's closest advisers.
The college has close links with many other institutions.
She has kept in close contact with the victims' families.
We keep in close touch with the police.
Take a close look at this photograph.
On closer examination the painting proved to be a fake.
Pay close attention to what I am telling you.
There's a close resemblance (= they look very similar).
His feeling for her was close to hatred.
The total was close to 20% of the workforce.
We tried to match the colours, but this is the closest we could get.
a close contest/match/election
It was a very close finish.
I think it's going to be close.
Our team came a close second (= nearly won).
The game was closer than the score suggests.
The result is going to be too close to call (= either side may win).
Phew! That was close—that car nearly hit us.
We caught the bus in the end but it was close (= we nearly missed it).
over 1 000 pages of close print
The soldiers advanced in close formation.
a close haircut/shave
The donor's identity is a close secret.
She was kept under close arrest.
He was close about his past.
She's always been very close with her money.
I sat and watched everyone very closely (= carefully).
He walked into the room, closely followed by the rest of the family.
a closely contested election
She closely resembled her mother at the same age.
The two events are closely connected.
Her remarks about me were embarrassingly close to home.
Over the next few months we will keep a close eye on sales.
They sat close together.
Don't come too close!
She held Tom close and pressed her cheek to his.
I couldn't get close enough to see.
A second police car followed close behind.
There are good cafes and a restaurant close at hand.
Our friends live close by.
The route passes close by the town.
She is close on sixty.
It is close on midnight.
a profit close to £200 million
The picture looks very different when you see it close to.
She snuggled close up to him.
He'd come close to death.
We didn't win but we came close.
Germany ran Argentina very close in the final.
Brookside Close
the close-knit community of a small village
The close-range shot was blocked by the goalkeeper.
The election was a close-run thing.
close-set eyes
a close-up of a human eye
It was strange to see her own face in close-up on the screen.
close-up pictures of the planet
Keep the door closed.
The museum is closed on Mondays.
This road is closed to traffic.
a closed society
He has a closed mind.
a closed membership
a walk-in closet
Homosexuals in public life are now coming out of the closet.
closet gays
I suspect he's a closet fascist.
He was closeted with the President for much of the day.
She had closeted herself away in her room.
his closing remarks
the closing stages of the game
the closing of the local school
factory closures
The hospital has been threatened with closure.
The conviction of their son's murderer helped to give them a sense of closure.
They removed a clot from his brain.
a drug that stops blood from clotting during operations
the blood clotting agent, Factor 8
woollen/cotton cloth
bandages made from strips of cloth
the cloth industry/trade
a cloth bag
cotton fabric
furnishing fabrics
His bandages had been made from strips of cloth.
'What material is this dress made of?' 'Cotton.'
He owns a factory producing a range of textiles.
the textile industry
He got a job in textiles.
Wipe the surface with a damp cloth.
a man of the cloth
The party has shed its cloth cap image (= it is not just a working-class party any more).
They clothe their children in the latest fashions.
(figurative) Climbing plants clothed the courtyard walls.
the costs of feeding and clothing a family
a man clothed in black
She jumped fully clothed into the water.
(figurative) The valley was clothed in trees and shrubs.
I bought some new clothes for the trip.
to put on/take off your clothes
Bring a change of clothes with you.
She has no clothes sense (= she does not know what clothes look attractive).
warm clothing
He was wearing a strange shapeless garment.
We were allowed to wear casual dress on Fridays.
the children's wear department
Her friends were all wearing the latest gear(= fashionable clothes).
Soon investors will realize that the emperor has no clothes and there will be a big sell-off in stocks.
protective clothing
the high cost of food and clothing
an item/article of clothing
scones and jam with clotted cream
The sun went behind a cloud.
The plane was flying in cloud most of the way.
Her father's illness cast a cloud over her wedding day.
The only dark cloud on the horizon was that they might have to move house.
He still has a cloud of suspicion hanging over him.
Key company documents are now stored in the cloud, so you no longer need to save them to your computer's hard drive.
Doubts were beginning to cloud my mind.
His judgement was clouded by jealousy.
Her face clouded over with anger.
Suspicion clouded his face.
It was beginning to cloud over.
His last years were clouded by financial worries.
Her eyes clouded with tears.
Steam had clouded the mirror.
a grey, cloudy day
a cloudless sky
political/financial clout
I knew his opinion carried a lot of clout with them.
a four-leaf clover (= one with four leaves instead of three, thought to bring good luck)
(figurative) Robert was always the class clown (= he did silly things to make the other students laugh).
What do those clowns in the government think they are doing?
After a while, the rich sauce begins to cloy.
the cloying sentimentality of her novels
a golf/tennis, etc. club
a chess/film/movie, etc. club
to join/belong to a club
The club has/have voted to admit new members.
We had lunch at the golf club.
the club bar
Manchester United Football Club
a jazz club
the club scene in Newcastle
He's a member of several London clubs.
a music club
the five/queen/ace of clubs
I played a club.
So you didn't get a job either? Join the club!
The victim was clubbed to death with a baseball bat.
We clubbed together to buy them a new television.
They go clubbing most weekends.
The venue was packed with 3 000 clubbers.
modern clubland
London's clubland
The teacher clucked sympathetically at the child's story.
(figurative) a cluck of impatience/annoyance
The police think the videotape may hold some vital clues to the identity of the killer.
Diet may hold the clue to the causes of migraine.
'You'll never guess who I saw today!' 'Give me a clue.'
I don't have a clue where she lives.
Don't ask him to do it—he doesn't have a clue!
He's just clued me in on the latest developments.
He's completely clueless about computers.
a clump of trees/bushes
The children clumped down the stairs.
Galaxies tend to clump together in clusters.
I spilt your coffee. Sorry—that was clumsy of me.
His clumsy fingers couldn't untie the knot.
She made a clumsy attempt to apologize.
The complaints procedure is clumsy and time-consuming.
clunky leather shoes
(figurative) The movie is ruined by wooden acting and clunky dialogue.
a cluster of stars
The plant bears its flowers in clusters.
a leukaemia cluster (= an area where there are more cases of the disease than you would expect)
a cluster of spectators
a little cluster of houses
a consonant cluster
The children clustered together in the corner of the room.
The doctors clustered anxiously around his bed.
He clutched the child to him.
I clutched on to the chair for support.
He gasped and clutched his stomach.
(figurative) Fear clutched at her heart.
Put your foot on the clutch.
The car needs a new clutch.
He's won a whole clutch of awards.
He managed to escape from their clutches.
Now that she had him in her clutches, she wasn't going to let go.
(figurative) She felt the sudden clutch of fear.
Don't clutter the page with too many diagrams.
I don't want all these files cluttering up my desk.
(figurative) Try not to clutter your head with trivia.
There's always so much clutter on your desk!
There was a clutter of bottles and tubes on the shelf.
a cluttered room/desk
(figurative) a cluttered mind
The CMS enables employees to add and edit web pages without the support of a web developer.
co-produced
cooperatively
co-author
coexist
The words 'heavy' and 'rain' co-occur frequently.
a housing co-op
She was co-opted onto the board.
co-signatories of/to the treaty
a new movie in which Russell Crowe co-stars with Cate Blanchett
a new movie co-starring Russell Crowe and Cate Blanchett
Pitt, Briggs & Co.
Were Jane and co. at the party?
a basketball/football/tennis, etc. coach
Italy's national coach
a maths coach
They went to Italy on a coach tour.
Travel is by coach overnight to Berlin.
a coach station (= where coaches start and end their journey)
a coach party (= a group of people travelling together on a coach)
a railway coach
to fly coach
coach fares/passengers/seats
Her father coached her for the Olympics.
She has coached hundreds of young singers.
He coaches basketball and soccer.
They believed the witnesses had been coached on what to say.
a coaching session
Tourists were arriving by the coachload.
Blood began to coagulate around the edges of the wound.
I put more coal on the fire.
a lump of coal
a coal fire
a coal mine
the coal industry
A hot coal fell out of the fire and burnt the carpet.
coal-black eyes
a coal-fired power station
The puddles had coalesced into a small stream.
to form a coalition
a two-party coalition
a coalition government
a coalition of environmental and consumer groups
They didn't rule out coalition with the Social Democrats.
coarse hands/linen
coarse sand/salt/hair
coarse manners/laughter
coarsely chopped onions (= cut into large pieces)
He laughed coarsely at her.
to go coarse fishing
Her hair gradually coarsened as she grew older.
His features had been coarsened by the weather.
The six long years in prison had coarsened him.
coastal waters/resorts/scenery
a coastal path (= one that follows the line of the coast)
The coastguard was alerted.
They radioed Dover Coastguard.
a coastguard station
a rugged/rocky/beautiful coastline
to protect the coastline from oil spillage
a fur/leather coat
a long winter coat
to put on/take off your coat
a dog with a smooth/shaggy coat
to give the walls a second coat of paint
cookies thickly coated with chocolate
A film of dust coated the table.
the royal coat of arms
She got where she is today on her brother's coat-tails.
a thin coating of chocolate
a disk with a magnetic coating
She coaxed the horse into coming a little closer.
He was coaxed out of retirement to help the failing company.
She had to coax the car along.
'Nearly there,' she coaxed.
The director coaxed a brilliant performance out of the cast.
No amount of coaxing will make me change my mind.
corn on the cob
a crusty cob
We need to come to a decision by COB tomorrow.
The essay was cobbled together from some old notes.
peach cobbler
He said it was all a load of cobblers.
Thick cobwebs hung in the dusty corners.
He brushed a cobweb out of his hair.
cobwebbed corners
The cock crowed.
a cock pheasant
The dog cocked its leg by every tree on our route (= in order to urinate ).
He cocked an inquisitive eyebrow at her.
She cocked her head to one side and looked at me.
The dog stood listening, its ears cocked.
to cock a snook at authority
I really cocked that exam up!
She cocked up all the arrangements for the party.
There's been a bit of a cock-up over the travel arrangements.
Doesn't that picture look cockeyed to you?
a cockeyed scheme to make people use less water
a cockney accent
a cocktail bar/cabinet/lounge
a prawn/shrimp cocktail
fruit cocktail
a lethal cocktail of drugs
a mug of cocoa
desiccated coconut
coconut biscuits/cookies
coconut oil
(figurative) the cocoon of a caring family
We were warm and safe, cocooned in our sleeping bags.
roasted cocoyam
fishing for cod
cod fillets
a cod American accent
cod psychology
(figurative) The final two months were a miserable coda to the President's first period in office.
to break/crack a code (= to understand and read the message)
It's written in code.
Tap your code number into the machine.
In the event of the machine not operating correctly, an error code will appear.
There are three codes for London.
a strict code of conduct
the penal code
Each order is coded separately.
a drug investigation, code-named Snoopy
a coded warning of a bomb at the airport
There was coded criticism of the government from some party members.
I've never heard such a load of old codswallop in my life.
the coefficient of friction
They were coerced into negotiating a settlement.
He claimed he had only acted under coercion.
coercive measures/powers
The industry is coeval with the construction of the first railways.
The illness frequently coexists with other chronic diseases.
English speakers now coexist peacefully with their Spanish-speaking neighbours.
Different traditions coexist successfully side by side.
to live in uneasy/peaceful coexistence within one nation
decaffeinated/instant coffee
ground/real coffee
a jar of coffee
a blend of Brazilian and Colombian coffees
coffee ice cream
black/white coffee (= without/with milk)
Tea or coffee?
I'll just make the coffee.
Let's talk over coffee (= while drinking coffee).
Two strong black coffees, please.
to have a coffee break
the coffee houses of Vienna
The nation's coffers are empty.
There is considerable pressure on teenagers to conform.
He refused to conform to the local customs.
The building does not conform with safety regulations.
It did not conform to the usual stereotype of an industrial city.
She put forward some cogent reasons for abandoning the plan.
'Haus' in German is cognate with 'house' in English.
German and Dutch are cognate languages.
a cognate development
'Haus' and 'house' are cognates.
a child's cognitive development
cognitive psychology
cognizant of the importance of the case
This view does not cohere with their other beliefs.
It can be difficult to get a group of people to cohere.
The points you make are fine, but the whole essay lacks coherence.
a coherent narrative/account/explanation
a coherent policy for the transport system
She only became coherent again two hours after the attack.
the cohesion of the nuclear family
social/political/economic cohesion
a cohesive group
the cohesive power of shared suffering
well-structured sentences illustrating the use of cohesive markers such as 'nevertheless' and 'however'
the 1999 birth cohort (= all those born in 1999)
Robinson and his cohorts were soon ejected from the hall.
The snake coiled up, ready to strike.
Mist coiled around the tops of the hills.
to coil a rope into a loop
Her hair was coiled on top of her head.
a coiled spring
a coil of wire
Shake the rope and let the coils unwind.
a snake's coils
a euro coin
notes and coin
The term 'cardboard city' was coined to describe communities of homeless people living in cardboard boxes.
Oh well, no news is good news, to coin a phrase.
Roman coinage
gold/silver/bronze coinage
decimal coinage
new coinages
It's a pity our trips to New York don't coincide.
The strike was timed to coincide with the party conference.
The interests of employers and employees do not always coincide.
Her story coincided exactly with her brother's.
At this point the two paths coincide briefly.
The present position of the house coincides with that of an earlier dwelling.
a strange/an extraordinary/a remarkable coincidence
What a coincidence! I wasn't expecting to see you here.
It's not a coincidence that none of the directors are women (= it did not happen by chance).
By (sheer) coincidence, I met the person we'd been discussing the next day.
the coincidence of inflation and unemployment
a coincidence of interests between the two partners
I suppose your presence here today is not entirely coincidental.
It's purely coincidental that we both chose to call our daughters Emma.
Coincidentally, they had both studied in Paris.
Can I have a Diet Coke?
Col. Stewart
It was a collaboration that produced extremely useful results.
She wrote the book in collaboration with one of her students.
The government worked in close collaboration with teachers on the new curriculum.
collaboration between the teachers and the government
The roof collapsed under the weight of snow.
He collapsed in the street and died two hours later.
When I get home I like to collapse on the sofa and listen to music.
Talks between management and unions have collapsed.
All opposition to the plan has collapsed.
Share prices collapsed after news of poor trading figures.
The table collapses for easy storage.
collapsed buildings
a collapsed investment bank
a collapsed lung
the collapse of law and order in the area
The peace talks were on the verge of collapse.
The walls were strengthened to protect them from collapse.
a state of mental/nervous collapse
She was taken to hospital after her collapse at work.
the collapse of share prices/the dollar/the market
collateral benefits
The government denied that there had been any collateral damage (= injury to ordinary people or buildings) during the bombing raid.
to feel/look cold
cold hands and feet
a cold room/house
hot and cold water in every room
Isn't it cold today?
It's freezing cold.
to get/turn colder
bitterly cold weather
the coldest May on record
(BrE) The water has gone cold.
a cold drink
Hot and cold food is available in the cafeteria.
cold chicken for lunch
to give sb a cold look/stare/welcome
Her manner was cold and distant.
He was staring at her with cold eyes.
clear cold light
cold grey skies
The police followed the robbers to the airport but then the trail went cold.
He was knocked out cold in the second round.
He was going to ask her but he got cold feet and said nothing.
These things always look different in the cold light of day.
Most modern art leaves me cold.
When the phone rang I just went hot and cold.
He shivered with cold.
Don't stand outside in the cold.
She doesn't seem to feel the cold.
You'll catch your death of cold (= used to warn sb they could become ill if they do not keep warm in cold weather).
I've got a cold.
a bad/heavy/slight cold
to catch a cold
His final request stopped her cold.
I can't just walk in there cold and give a speech.
A small drop in the inflation rate was cold comfort for the millions without a job.
(figurative) I've had to put my plans into cold storage (= I've decided not to carry them out immediately but to keep them for later).
to break out into a cold sweat
I woke up in a cold sweat about the interview.
I quit smoking cold turkey.
a cold-blooded killer
She was hurt by the coldness in his voice.
the icy coldness of the water
Researchers around the world are collaborating to develop a new vaccine.
We have collaborated on many projects over the years.
She agreed to collaborate with him in writing her biography.
collaborative projects/studies/research
a collaborative effort/venture
an interesting collage of 1960s songs
collagen injections
a collapsible chair/boat/bicycle
a coat with a fur collar
I turned up my collar against the wind (= to keep warm).
He always wears a collar and tie for work.
a collar and lead/leash
He got very hot under the collar when I asked him where he'd been all day.
Police collared the culprit as he was leaving the premises.
I was collared in the street by a woman doing a survey.
a collarless shirt
to collate data/information/figures
the collation of information
a colleague of mine from the office
We were friends and colleagues for more than 20 years.
the Prime Minister and his Cabinet colleagues
to collect data/evidence/information
We're collecting signatures for a petition.
Samples were collected from over 200 patients.
to collect stamps/postcards, etc.
A crowd began to collect in front of the embassy.
We seem to have collected an enormous number of boxes (= without intending to).
That guitar's been sitting collecting dust (= not being used) for years now.
What day do they collect the rubbish/garbage?
The package is waiting to be collected.
(BrE) She's gone to collect her son from school.
We're collecting for local charities.
We collected over £300 for the appeal.
to collect rent/debts/tax
She collected £25 000 in compensation.
to collect a prize/a medal
I'm fine—I just need a minute to collect myself.
She paused to collect her thoughts before entering the interview room.
Would somebody collect up all the dirty glasses?
to make a collect call
to call sb collect
She always stays cool, calm and collected in a crisis.
a stamp/coin, etc. collection
The painting comes from his private collection.
There was a collection of books and shoes on the floor.
There is always a strange collection of runners in the London Marathon.
refuse/garbage collection
The last collection from this postbox is at 5.15.
Your suit will be ready for collection on Tuesday.
The first stage in research is data collection.
a collection of stories by women writers
a house-to-house collection for Cancer Research
The total collection last week amounted to £250.
Armani's stunning new autumn collection
collective leadership/decision-making/responsibility
collective memory (= things that a group of people or a community know or remember, that are often passed from parents to children)
The collective name for mast, boom and sails on a boat is the 'rig'.
the collectively agreed rate
We have had a successful year, both collectively and individually.
rain, snow and hail, collectively known as 'precipitation' (= as a group)
an independent collective making films for television
a stamp collector
ticket/tax/debt collectors
collegiate life
a collegiate university
a college of further education (= providing education and training for people over 16)
a secretarial college
the Royal College of Art
a college course/library/student
She's at college.
Carleton College
a college campus/student
a private college
He got interested in politics when he was in college.
She's away at college in California.
He's hoping to go to college next year.
My son has gone away to college.
'Where did you go to college?' 'Ohio State University.'
My daughter is at university.
I didn't want to go to a large university.
King's College, Cambridge
a tour of Oxford colleges
Most students live in college.
The history department is part of the College of Arts and Sciences.
Eton College
the Royal College of Physicians
the American College of Cardiology
The car and the van collided head-on in thick fog.
The car collided head-on with the van.
As he fell, his head collided with the table.
I was terrified that the plane would crash.
The car skidded and slammed into a tree.
Ram-raiders smashed a stolen car through the shop window.
We're going to crash, aren't we?
He crashed down the telephone receiver.
They regularly collide over policy decisions.
a collision between two trains
Stewart was injured in a collision with another player.
a head-on collision (= between two vehicles that are moving towards each other)
a mid-air collision (= between two aircraft while they are flying)
His car was in collision with a motorbike.
a collision between two opposing points of view
In his work we see the collision of two different traditions.
'Bitter' collocates with 'tears' but 'sour' does not.
'Bitter' and 'tears' collocate.
'Bitter' and 'tears' are collocates.
'Resounding success' and 'crying shame' are English collocations.
Advanced students need to be aware of the importance of collocation.
former British colonies
the American colony in Paris
an artists' colony
a colony of ants
a bird colony
a colossal statue
The singer earns a colossal amount of money.
Several people had colluded in the murder.
They colluded with terrorists to overthrow the government.
The temple is supported by marble columns.
Nelson's Column in London
a column of smoke (= smoke rising straight up)
a column of text
a dictionary with two columns per page
Put a mark in the appropriate column.
Their divorce filled a lot of column inches in the national papers (= got a lot of attention).
the gossip/financial column
I always read her column in the local paper.
to add up a column of figures
a long column of troops and tanks
What's your favourite colour?
bright/dark/light colours
His face took on an unhealthy, whitish hue.
leaves with red and gold autumn tints
There was a pink tinge to the sky.
a tinge of red
The police were corrupt and were operating in collusion with the drug dealers.
There was collusion between the two witnesses (= they gave the same false evidence).
Colonel Jim Edge
a colonial power
Tunisia achieved independence from French colonial rule in 1956.
Western colonial attitudes
life in colonial times
British colonials in India
European colonialism
colonialist laws
colonic irrigation (= the process of washing out the colon with water)
The area was colonized by the Vikings.
The slopes are colonized by flowering plants.
Bats had colonized the ruins.
the colonization of the 'New World'
plant colonization
a coloratura soprano (= one who often sings coloratura passages)
available in 12 different colours
the colour of the sky
Her hair is a reddish-brown colour.
Foods which go through a factory process lose much of their colour, flavour and texture.
The garden was a mass of colour.
a colour TV
colour photography/printing
a full-colour brochure
Do you dream in colour?
discrimination on the grounds of race, colour or religion
(especially NAmE) a person/man/woman of colour (= who is not white)
The fresh air brought colour to their cheeks.
Colour flooded her face when she thought of what had happened.
His face was drained of colour (= he looked pale and ill).
a semi-permanent hair colour that lasts six to eight washes
The old town is full of colour and attractions.
Her acting added warmth and colour to the production.
to add/give/lend colour to sth (= make it brighter, more interesting, etc.)
Red and white are the team colours.
Spain's national colours
(figurative) There are people of different political colours on the committee.
Most buildings had a flagpole with the national colours flying.
sailing under the French colours
She passed the exam with flying colours.
Most of the available evidence lends colour to this view.
The children love to draw and colour.
a colouring book (= with pictures that you can add colour to)
How long have you been colouring (= dyeing) your hair?
He drew a monster and coloured it green.
She coloured at his remarks.
This incident coloured her whole life.
Don't let your judgement be coloured by personal feelings.
I'll draw a tree and you can colour it in.
The files have labels that are colour-coded according to subject.
brightly coloured balloons
coloured lights
She was wearing a cream-coloured suit.
colourful shop windows
The male birds are more colourful than the females.
a colourful history/past/career
one of the book's most colourful characters
The street was colourfully decorated with flags and bunting.
The tragic tale is told well and colourfully.
red food colouring
Blue suited her fair colouring.
insects with vivid yellow and black colouring
colouristic effects
a colourless liquid like water
colourless lips
a colourless personality
The designs are available in two colourways: red/grey or blue/grey.
to go into/be in a coma
Your hair needs a good comb.
Don't forget to comb your hair!
Her hair was neatly combed back.
I combed the shops looking for something to wear.
The police combed the area for clues.
They combed through the files for evidence of fraud.
an ageing pop star trying to stage a comeback
You agreed to the contract, so now you have no comeback.
He was killed in combat.
armed/unarmed combat (= with/without weapons)
combat troops
combat boots
measures to combat crime/inflation/unemployment/disease
in a combative mood/spirit
His treatment was a combination of surgery, radiation and drugs.
What an unusual combination of flavours!
Technology and good management. That's a winning combination (= one that will certainly be successful).
The firm is working on a new product in combination with several overseas partners.
These paints can be used individually or in combination.
I can't remember the combination.
Hydrogen and oxygen combine to form water.
Hydrogen combines with oxygen to form water.
Several factors had combined to ruin our plans.
Combine all the ingredients in a bowl.
Combine the eggs with a little flour.
Combine the eggs and the flour.
The German team scored a combined total of 652 points.
We are still looking for someone who combines all the necessary qualities.
The hotel combines comfort with convenience.
This model combines a printer and scanner.
They have successfully combined the old with the new in this room.
a kitchen and dining room combined
The trip will combine business with pleasure.
She has successfully combined a career and bringing up a family.
They combined against a common enemy.
the combined effects of the two drugs
You should try to combine exercise with a healthy diet.
It took the combined efforts of both the press and the public to bring about a change in the law.
The two firms joined forces to win the contract.
I'll have the steak and chicken combo platter.
combustible material/gases
He came into the room and shut the door.
She comes to work by bus.
My son is coming home soon.
Come here!
Come and see us soon!
Here comes Jo!(= Jo is coming)
There's a storm coming.
They're coming to stay for a week.
When did she last come and see you?
Come and have your dinner.
Come have your dinner.
They continued until they came to a river.
What time did you come (= to my house)?
Spring came late this year.
Your breakfast is coming soon.
Have any letters come for me?
Help came at last.
The CD comes complete with all the words of the songs.
The time has come (= now is the moment) to act.
I've come for my book.
I've come about my book.
I've come to get my book.
He came looking for me.
I've only come for an hour.
Thanks for coming (= to my house, party, etc.).
Are you coming to the club with us tonight?
Why don't you come skating tonight?
The children came running into the room.
We've come 50 miles this morning.
(figurative) The company has come a long way (= made lot of progress) in the last 5 years.
The agreement came after several hours of negotiations.
The rains came too late to do any good.
Her death came as a terrible shock to us.
His resignation came as no surprise.
How did he come to break his leg?
How do you come to be so late?
That comes a long way down my list of priorities.
His family comes first (= is the most important thing in his life).
She came second (= received the second highest score) in the exam.
At last winter came to an end.
He came to power in 2006.
When will they come to a decision?
The trees are coming into leaf.
This dress comes in black and red.
(informal) New cars don't come cheap (= they are expensive).
The buttons had come undone.
The handle came loose.
Everything will come right in the end.
This design came to be known as the Oriental style.
In time she came to love him.
She had come to see the problem in a new light.
I've come to expect this kind of behaviour from him.
'She's an entomologist.' 'Come again?' 'An entomologist—she studies insects.'
They had a party next door—we heard people coming and going all night.
The pain in my leg comes and goes.
Acting comes naturally to her.
Don't come the innocent with me.
How sad that all his hard work should come to nothing.
Her plans didn't come to anything.
I don't really trust him—nor his wife, come to that.
He promised to support her come what may.
'I think you owe me some money.' 'How come?'
If she spent five years in Paris, how come her French is so bad?
They may well regret the decision in years to come.
This will be a problem for some time to come (= for a period of time in the future).
When it comes to getting things done, he's useless.
I see where you're coming from (= I understand what you mean).
Can you tell me how the accident came about?
He spoke for a long time but his meaning didn't really come across.
She comes across well in interviews.
He came over as a sympathetic person.
I came across children sleeping under bridges.
She came across some old photographs in a drawer.
I hoped she'd come across with some more information.
When the right opportunity comes along, she'll take it.
I'm glad you came along.
Your French has come along a lot recently.
Come along! We're late.
Come along! It's easy!
The book just came apart in my hands.
(figurative) My whole life had come apart at the seams.
Your mother hasn't yet come round from the anaesthetic.
My birthday seems to come around quicker every year.
Do come around and see us some time.
He'll never come round to our way of thinking.
She came at me with a knife.
(figurative) The noise came at us from all sides.
We're getting nowhere—let's come at it from another angle.
The plaster had started to come away from the wall.
We came away with the impression that all was not well with their marriage.
You came back (= came home) very late last night.
The colour was coming back to her cheeks.
(figurative) United came back from being two goals down to win 3–2.
I waited a long time for him to return.
Come back and visit again soon!
Do you ever want to go back to China?
What time did you get back last night?
The weather got so bad that we had to turn back.
Long hair for men seems to be coming back in.
She came back at the speaker with some sharp questions.
It's all coming back to me now.
Once you've been in France a few days, your French will soon come back.
Let's come back to the point at issue.
It all comes back to a question of money.
The case comes before the court next week.
I'd hate anything to come between us.
She came by the house.
Jobs are hard to come by these days.
How did you come by that scratch on your cheek?
The ceiling came down with a terrific crash.
The rain came down in torrents.
We were forced to come down in a field.
The price of gas is coming down.
Gas is coming down in price.
The committee came down in support of his application.
Her hair comes down to her waist.
Don't come down too hard on her.
The courts are coming down heavily on young offenders.
The name has come down from the last century.
What it comes down to is either I get more money or I leave.
I think I'm coming down with flu.
Several people came forward with information.
Police have asked witnesses of the accident to come forward.
She comes from London.
Where do you come from?
Much of our butter comes from New Zealand.
This wool comes from goats, not sheep.
This poem comes from his new book.
Where does her attitude come from?
Where's that smell coming from?
He comes from a family of actors.
'She doesn't try hard enough.' 'That's rich, coming from you (= you do not try hard either).'
My horse came in last.
Long hair for men came in in the sixties.
We're still waiting for copies of the book to come in.
I understand the plan perfectly, but I can't see where I come in.
The train is coming in now.
News is coming in of a serious plane crash in France.
She has over a thousand pounds a month coming in from her investments.
Would you like to come in at this point, Susan?
The government's economic policies have come in for a lot of criticism.
If you want to come in on the deal, you need to decide now.
She came into a fortune when her uncle died.
I've worked very hard to pass this exam—luck doesn't come into it.
I made a few enquiries, but nothing came of it in the end.
That comes of eating too much!
Does this hood come off?
That mark won't come off.
Did the trip to Rome ever come off?
They had wanted it to be a surprise but the plan didn't come off.
I thought they came off very well in the debate.
to come off your bicycle/horse
When I tried to lift the jug, the handle came off in my hand.
A button had come off my coat.
Come off it! We don't have a chance.
I've tried to get him to come off the tranquillizers.
Owen came on for Brown ten minutes before the end of the game.
The project is coming on fine.
Come on! We don't have much time.
Come on! Try once more.
Oh, come on—you know that isn't true!
I can feel a cold coming on.
I think there's rain coming on.
It came on to rain.
What time does the news come on?
Set the oven to come on at six.
When does the heating come on?
I'd like to come on to that question later.
The rain stopped and the sun came out.
The daffodils came out early this year.
When is her new novel coming out?
The full story came out at the trial.
It came out that he'd been telling lies.
Some of the photos from our trip didn't come out.
Her best qualities come out in a crisis.
I tried to say 'I love you,' but the words wouldn't come out.
He came out against the plan.
In her speech, the senator came out in favour of a change in the law.
This nail won't come out.
These ink stains won't come out of my dress.
Will the colour come out (= become faint or disappear) if I wash it?
The total bill comes out at £500.
Hot weather makes her come out in a rash.
It was when she started drama classes that she really came out of herself.
The book came out of his experiences in India.
Rock music came out of the blues.
He came out with a stream of abuse.
She sometimes comes out with the most extraordinary remarks.
to come over funny/dizzy/faint
I come over all shy whenever I see her.
He came over well in the interview.
Why don't you come over to England in the summer?
Her grandparents came over from Ireland during the famine.
A fit of dizziness came over her.
I can't think what came over me (= I do not know what caused me to behave in that way).
A message is just coming through.
With such a weak heart she was lucky to come through the operation.
We were worried she wouldn't be able to handle it, but she came through in the end.
The bank finally came through with the money.
The idea came to me in the bath.
It suddenly came to her that she had been wrong all along.
The bill came to $30.
I never expected those few items to come to so much.
The doctors will operate if necessary—but it may not come to that.
Who'd have thought things would come to this (= become so bad)?
Three colleges have come together to create a new university.
Bits and pieces of things he'd read and heard were coming together, and he began to understand.
What heading does this come under?
The head teacher came under a lot of criticism from the parents.
All her students came under her spell.
The daffodils are just beginning to come up.
We watched the sun come up.
I'm afraid something urgent has come up.
We'll let you know if any vacancies come up.
The subject came up in conversation.
The question is bound to come up at the meeting.
Her birthday is coming up soon.
Her divorce case comes up next month.
'Is lunch ready?' 'Coming up!'
Why don't you come up to Scotland for a few days?
He came up to me and asked me the way to the station.
We expect to come up against a lot of opposition to the plan.
She comes up for re-election next year.
His contract is coming up for renewal.
The water came up to my neck.
His performance didn't really come up to his usual high standard.
Their trip to France didn't come up to expectations.
She came up with a new idea for increasing sales.
How soon can you come up with the money?
They would have been married forty years come this June.
Oh come now, things aren't as bad as all that.
Come, come, Miss Jones, you know perfectly well what I mean.
We nearly came a cropper in the second half of the game.
We're hearing a lot about new inventions coming down the pike.
In any decision she makes, her family always comes first.
It suddenly came home to him that he was never going to see Julie again.
The extra money came in very handy.
Don't throw that away—it might come in handy.
New controls come into effect next month.
The new rules come into operation from next week.
When the traffic's this bad, a bicycle really comes into its own.
When did this word come into common use?
Making money came naturally to him.
In most boardroom disputes he tends to come out on top.
She knew she had only to call and he would come running.
Production ground to a halt during the strike.
Several pedestrians came to grief on the icy pavement.
The match finally came to life in the second half.
In my dream all my toys came to life.
New evidence has recently come to light.
The car crashed through the barrier and came to rest in a field.
His eyes came to rest on Clara's face.
It has come to our knowledge that you have been taking time off without permission.
She is still coming to terms with her son's death.
The problem has come to the fore again in recent months.
She has always been to the fore at moments of crisis.
Come to think of it, he did mention seeing you.
Winning the medal was like a dream come true.
The flap of the envelope had come unstuck.
We expected great things of the England team, but on the day they simply failed to deliver the goods.
I didn't honestly think he'd pass the exam but he came up trumps on the day.
He took whatever came his way.
a come-hither look
She was definitely giving him the come-on (= trying to attract him sexually).
When he won the lottery, all sorts of distant relatives came out of the woodwork.
When do the new regulations come into force?
I'm slowly getting to grips with the language.
She has to work late most days, but in her kind of job that goes with the territory.
When discussing influential modern artists, three names immediately come to mind.
a romantic comedy
slapstick comedy
He didn't appreciate the comedy of the situation.
A series of movies will be shown to commemorate the 30th anniversary of his death.
A plaque commemorates the battle.
the commencement of the financial year
The event is open to all comers.
leaders of industry and commerce
I was glad to see that the bad guy got his comeuppance at the end of the movie.
a comfy armchair/bed
These tennis shoes are designed for comfort and performance.
You can now watch the latest movies in the comfort of your own home.
The hotel offers a high standard of comfort and service.
They had enough money to live in comfort in their old age.
to take/draw comfort from sb's words
I tried to offer a few words of comfort.
The sound of gunfire was too close for comfort.
If it's any comfort to you, I'm in the same situation.
His words were of little comfort in the circumstances.
comfort food (= food that makes you feel better)
The children have been a great comfort to me through all of this.
It's a comfort to know that she is safe.
The hotel has all modern comforts/every modern comfort.
material comforts (= money and possessions)
The victim's widow was today being comforted by family and friends.
She comforted herself with the thought that it would soon be spring.
It comforted her to feel his arms around her.
You can't use food as a comfort blanket.
Years of depression caused him to turn to comfort eating.
Stepping outside your comfort zone and trying new things can be a great experience.
We cannot afford to have anyone operating in a comfort zone.
I knew if I could find my comfort zone I would be difficult to beat.
It's such a comfortable bed.
These new shoes are not very comfortable.
a warm comfortable house
Are you comfortable?
She shifted into a more comfortable position on the chair.
Please make yourself comfortable while I get some coffee.
The patient is comfortable (= not in pain) after his operation.
He's more comfortable with computers than with people.
The party won with a comfortable majority.
a comfortable 2–0 win
All the rooms were comfortably furnished.
If you're all sitting comfortably, then I'll begin.
He can comfortably afford the extra expense.
They are comfortably ahead in the opinion polls.
her comforting words
It's comforting to know that you'll be there.
a comic monologue/story
The play is both comic and tragic.
She can always be relied on to provide comic relief (= sth to make you laugh) at a boring party.
a comic opera
a comic actor
With the coming of modern technology, many jobs were lost.
It's hard to keep track of the children's comings and goings.
in the coming months
This coming Sunday is her birthday.
the European Commission
(BrE) The government has set up a commission of inquiry into the disturbances at the prison.
a commission on human rights
You get a 10% commission on everything you sell.
He earned £2 000 in commission last month.
In this job you work on commission (= are paid according to the amount you sell).
1% commission is charged for cashing traveller's cheques.
the commission of a crime
Several of the airline's planes are temporarily out of commission and undergoing safety checks.
She has been commissioned to write a new national anthem.
Publishers have commissioned a French translation of the book.
She was commissioned in 2014.
He has just been commissioned (as a) pilot officer.
the Church Commissioners (= the group of people responsible for controlling the financial affairs of the Church of England)
European Commissioners
the agriculture/health, etc. commissioner
Commissioner Rhodes was unavailable for comment.
the baseball commissioner
a committed member of the team
They are committed socialists.
to commit murder/adultery
Most crimes are committed by young men.
appalling crimes committed against innocent children
The President is committed to reforming health care.
Borrowers should think carefully before committing themselves to taking out a loan.
Both sides committed themselves to settle the dispute peacefully.
You don't have to commit yourself now, just think about it.
Why are so many men scared to commit?(= say they will be loyal to one person)
The council has committed large amounts of money to housing projects.
She was committed to a psychiatric hospital.
She committed the instructions to memory.
She's on the management committee.
The committee has/have decided to close the restaurant.
a committee member/a member of the committee
a committee meeting
Begin when I give the command.
You must obey the captain's commands.
He has 1 200 men under his command.
He has command of 1 200 men.
The police arrived and took command of the situation.
For the first time in years, she felt in command of her life.
He looked relaxed and totally in command of himself.
Who is in command here?
Bomber Command
Applicants will be expected to have (a) good command of English.
He commanded his men to retreat.
She commanded the release of the prisoners.
'Come here!' he commanded (them).
(formal) The commission intervened and commanded that work on the building cease.
(BrE also ) The commission commanded that work on the building should cease.
The troops were commanded by General Haig.
to command sympathy/support
She was able to command the respect of the class.
The headlines commanded her attention.
As a top lawyer, he can expect to command a six-figure salary.
The hotel commands a fine view of the valley.
The party was no longer able to command a majority in Parliament.
the power and finances commanded by the police
military/allied/field/flight commanders
the commander of the expedition
Who is your commanding officer?
a commanding figure/presence/voice
The castle occupies a commanding position on a hill.
commemorative stamps
a commemoration service
a statue in commemoration of a national hero
I will be on leave during the week commencing 15 February.
The day commenced with a welcome from the principal.
She commenced her medical career in 1956.
We commence building next week.
Operators commenced to build pipelines in 1862.
She was commended on her handling of the situation.
His designs were highly commended by the judges (= they did not get a prize but they were especially praised).
She is an excellent worker and I commend her to you without reservation.
The movie has little to commend it (= it has few good qualities).
His outspoken behaviour did not commend itself to his colleagues.
We commend her soul to God.
commendable honesty
a commendation for bravery
commensal organisms
Salary will be commensurate with experience.
Have you any comment to make about the cause of the disaster?
The director was not available for comment.
He handed me the document without comment.
(especially BrE) What she said was fair comment (= a reasonable criticism).
The results are a clear comment on government education policy.
There was a lot of comment about his behaviour.
'Will you resign, sir?' 'No comment!'
I don't feel I can comment on their decision.
He refused to comment until after the trial.
A spokesperson commented that levels of carbon dioxide were very high.
'Not his best performance,' she commented to the woman sitting next to her.
He noted in passing that the company's record on safety issues was not good.
Critics remarked that the play was not original.
She observed that it was getting late.
a sports commentary
Our reporters will give a running commentary (= a continuous one) on the election results as they are announced.
He kept up a running commentary on everyone who came in or went out.
a critical commentary on the final speech of the play
The petty quarrels were a sad commentary on the state of the government.
political commentary
Who will be commentating on the game?
a political commentator
a television/sports commentator
the commercial heart of the city
a commercial vehicle (= one that is used for carrying goods or passengers who pay)
The movie was not a commercial success (= did not make money).
commercial baby foods
the first commercial flights across the Atlantic
The play was very successful on Broadway.
The company has had another successful year.
a highly profitable business
The movie was not a commercial success(= made no profit).
They do a lot of business in lucrative overseas markets.
Small local shops stop being economic when a supermarket opens up nearby.
Their more recent music is far too commercial.
a commercial radio station/TV channel
commercially produced/grown/developed
The product is not yet commercially available.
His invention was not commercially successful.
Their music has become very commercialized in recent years.
The fluid must be prevented from commingling with other fluids.
(finance 金融) Campaign funds must not be commingled with other money.
She commiserated with the losers on their defeat.
I offered him my commiseration.
Commiserations to the losing team!
She doesn't want to make a big emotional commitment to Steve at the moment.
the government's commitment to public services
The company's commitment to providing quality at a reasonable price has been vital to its success.
A career as an actor requires one hundred per cent commitment.
He's busy for the next month with filming commitments.
Women very often have to juggle work with their family commitments.
the commitment of resources to education
Achieving success at this level requires a commitment of time and energy.
He was released on bail pending committal proceedings.
rice, flour and other basic commodities
a drop in commodity prices
Crude oil is the world's most important commodity.
to create/develop/launch a new product
cotton/leather goods
electrical goods
official Olympic merchandise
leather/household goods
We sell only fresh local produce.
Water is a precious commodity that is often taken for granted in the West.
Commodore John Barry
Jackson is a common English name.
Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer among women in this country.
Some birds which were once a common sight are now becoming rare.
a common spelling mistake
They share a common interest in photography.
basic features which are common to all human languages
We are working together for a common purpose.
common ownership of the land
This decision was taken for the common good (= the advantage of everyone).
It is, by common consent, Scotland's prettiest coast (= everyone agrees that it is).
the common garden frog
Shakespeare's work was popular among the common people in his day.
In most people's eyes she was nothing more than a common criminal.
You'd think he'd have the common courtesy to apologize (= this would be the polite behaviour that people would expect).
It's only common decency to let her know what's happening (= people would expect it).
She thought he was very common and uneducated.
We went for a walk on the common.
Wimbledon Common
The commons is next to the gym.
Tim and I have nothing in common./I have nothing in common with Tim.
The two cultures have a lot in common.
They hold the property as tenants in common.
Britain, in common with many other industrialized countries, has experienced major changes over the last 100 years.
1890 CE
Despite our disagreements, we have been able to find some common ground.
For goodness' sake, just use your common sense!
a common-sense approach to a problem
Christopher is commonly known as Kit.
commonly held opinions
This is one of the most commonly used methods.
Computers are now commonplace in primary classrooms.
a member of the Commonwealth
Commonwealth countries
the Commonwealth of Virginia
The city and the Commonwealth have lost a great leader.
Puerto Rico remains a US commonwealth, not a state.
the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)
I heard a commotion and went to see what was happening.
The crowd waiting outside was causing a commotion.
a communal kitchen/garden, etc.
As a student he tried communal living for a few years.
communal violence between religious groups
The property was owned communally.
Speech is the fastest method of communication between people.
All channels of communication need to be kept open.
Doctors do not always have good communication skills.
non-verbal communication
We are in regular communication by email.
communication systems/links/technology
The new airport will improve communications between the islands.
Snow has prevented communication with the outside world for three days.
a communication from the leader of the party
a 1970s hippy commune
He spent much of this time communing with nature.
communicable diseases
We only communicate by email.
They communicated in sign language.
Dolphins use sound to communicate with each other.
to communicate information/a message to sb
We talked on the phone for over an hour.
Have you discussed the problem with anyone?
I've spoken to the manager about it.
'Can I speak to Susan?' 'Speaking.'(= at the beginning of a telephone conversation)
Have you talked to your parents about the problems you're having?
I've spoken to Ed about it and he's promised not to let it happen again.
We only communicate by email.
Politicians will be debating the bill later this week.
You shouldn't have done it without consulting me.
Candidates must be able to communicate effectively.
He was eager to communicate his ideas to the group.
Her nervousness was communicating itself to the children.
They failed to communicate what was happening and why.
The novel is about a family who can't communicate with each other.
The disease is communicated through dirty drinking water.
a communicating door (= one that connects two rooms)
I don't find him very communicative.
communicative skills
an effective/skilled/successful communicator
a poor communicator
I looked around to see who the speaker was.
a fluent Arabic speaker
The ideal candidate will be an effective communicator.
Myra is a dear, but she's also a terrible gossip.
He's a very persuasive talker.
She's a (great) talker(= she talks a lot).
to go to Communion (= attend church for this celebration)
to take/receive communion (= receive the bread and wine)
poets living in communion with nature
the Anglican communion
communist ideology
a Communist country/government/leader
The local community was shocked by the murders.
health workers based in the community (= working with people in a local area)
the international community (= the countries of the world as a group)
good community relations with the police
(NAmE) community parks/libraries (= paid for by the local town/city)
the Polish community in London
ethnic communities
the farming community
There is a strong sense of community in this town.
community spirit
He was sentenced to a community order that involved psychological counselling.
She was given a two-year community sentence for the assault on her neighbour.
a commutation of the death sentence to life imprisonment
She commutes from Oxford to London every day.
He spent that year commuting between New York and Chicago.
I live within commuting distance of Dublin.
People are prepared to commute long distances if they are desperate for work.
a two-hour commute into downtown Washington
I have only a short commute to work.
(BrE) the commuter belt (= the area around a city where people live and from which they travel to work in the city)
Her children go to the local comp.
comp time (= time off work given for working extra hours)
a compact camera
The kitchen was compact but well equipped.
a compact mass of earth
He had a compact and muscular body.
a layer of compacted snow
It is interesting to compare their situation and ours.
We compared the two reports carefully.
We carefully compared the first report with the second.
My own problems seem insignificant compared with other people's.
I've had some difficulties, but they were nothing compared to yours (= they were not nearly as bad as yours).
Standards in health care have improved enormously compared to 40 years ago.
This school compares with the best in the country (= it is as good as them).
This house doesn't compare with our previous one (= it is not as good).
The critics compared his work to that of Martin Amis.
They are both great but you can't compare apples and oranges.
Comparison with other oil-producing countries is extremely interesting.
I enclose the two plans for comparison.
The education system bears/stands no comparison with (= is not as good as) that in many Asian countries.
a comparison of the rail systems in Britain and France
a comparison of men's salaries with those of women
comparisons between Britain and the rest of Europe
a comparison of the brain to a computer (= showing what is similar)
It is difficult to make a comparison with her previous book—they are completely different.
You can draw comparisons with the situation in Ireland (= say how the two situations are similar).
In terms of price there's no comparison (= one thing is much more expensive than the other).
Last year's riots pale in comparison with this latest outburst of violence.
the largest computer company in the world
the National Bus Company
She joined the company in 2009.
Company profits were 5% lower than last year.
a theatre/dance, etc. company
the Royal Shakespeare Company
I enjoy Jo's company (= I enjoy being with her).
She enjoys her own company (= being by herself) when she is travelling.
The children are very good company (= pleasant to be with) at this age.
a pleasant evening in the company of friends
He's coming with me for company.
I didn't realize you had company.
She told the assembled company what had happened.
It is bad manners to whisper in company (= in a group of people).
Judging by the company he kept, Mark must have been a wealthy man.
She arrived in company with the ship's captain.
The US dollar went through a difficult time, in company with the oil market.
I'll keep you company while you're waiting.
This is where we part company (= go in different directions).
The band have parted company with their manager.
The band and their manager have parted company.
Weber parted company with Marx on a number of important issues.
travelling companions
(figurative) Fear was the hostages' constant companion.
She was a charming dinner companion.
His younger brother is not much of a companion for him.
They're drinking companions (= they go out drinking together).
We became companions in misfortune.
A companion volume is soon to be published.
A Companion to French Literature
They meet at the club for companionship and advice.
She had only her cat for companionship.
A comparable house in the south of the city would cost twice as much.
The situation in the US is not directly comparable to that in the UK.
Inflation is now at a rate comparable with that in other European countries.
Each group will have the same set of questions, in order to ensure comparability.
a comparative study of the educational systems of two countries
comparative linguistics
Then he was living in comparative comfort (= compared with others or with his own life at a previous time).
The company is a comparative newcomer to the software market (= other companies have been in business much longer).
'Better' is the comparative of 'good' and 'more difficult' is the comparative of 'difficult'.
The unit is comparatively easy to install and cheap to operate.
He died comparatively young (= at a younger age than most people die).
comparatively few/low/rare/recent
The desk has a secret compartment.
There is a handy storage compartment beneath the oven.
Life today is rigidly compartmentalized into work and leisure.
a map and compass
the points of the compass (= N, S, E, W, etc.)
a pair of compasses
the compass of a singer's voice (= the range from the lowest to the highest note that he or she can sing)
to feel/show compassion
He was allowed to go home on compassionate grounds (= because he was suffering).
The new system will be compatible with existing equipment.
Are measures to protect the environment compatible with economic growth?
compatible blood groups
He played against one of his compatriots in the semi-final.
Several companies are competing for the contract.
We can't compete with them on price.
Young children will usually compete for their mother's attention.
Small traders cannot compete in the face of cheap foreign imports.
There are too many magazines competing to attract readers.
He's hoping to compete in the London marathon.
The law can compel fathers to make regular payments for their children.
I feel compelled to write and tell you how much I enjoyed your book.
Last year ill health compelled his retirement.
He spoke with an authority that compelled the attention of the whole crowd.
a compelling need/desire
There is no compelling reason to believe him.
compelling evidence
compellingly attractive
a compendious description
Nothing can compensate for the loss of a loved one.
Her lawyers say she should be compensated for the suffering she had been caused.
He received a compensatory payment of $20 000.
to claim/award/receive compensation
to pay compensation for injuries at work
to receive £10 000 in compensation
I wish I were young again, but getting older has its compensations.
to act as (a) compère
to gain a high level of competence in English
professional/technical competence
The judge has to act within the competence of the court.
outside sb's area of competence
The syllabus lists the knowledge and competences required at this level.
Make sure the firm is competent to carry out the work.
He's very competent in his work.
The case was referred to a competent authority.
to perform competently
competitive games/sports
Graduates have to fight for jobs in a highly competitive market.
a shop selling clothes at competitive prices (= as low as any other shop)
We need to work harder to remain competitive with other companies.
to gain a competitive advantage over rival companies
You have to be highly competitive to do well in sport these days.
competitively priced goods
the competitiveness of British industry
There is now intense competition between schools to attract students.
We are in competition with four other companies for the contract.
We won the contract in the face of stiff competition.
a music/photo, etc. competition
to enter/win/lose a competition
We'll be able to assess the competition at the conference.
our main/major competitor
Over 200 competitors entered the race.
a comprehensive list of addresses
a comprehensive study
comprehensive insurance (= covering all risks)
We are trying to compile a list of suitable people for the job.
The album was compiled from live recordings from last year's tour.
Her latest album is a compilation of all her best singles.
a compilation album
the compilation of a dictionary
Despite signs of an improvement in the economy, there is no room for complacency.
a dangerously complacent attitude to the increase in unemployment
We must not become complacent about progress.
I'm going to complain to the manager about this.
The defendant complained of intimidation during the investigation.
She never complains, but she's obviously exhausted.
(informal) 'How are you?' 'Oh, I can't complain (= I'm all right).'
He complained bitterly that he had been unfairly treated.
'It's not fair,' she complained.
Students took to the streets to protest against the decision.
If nobody objects, we'll postpone the meeting till next week.
He objected that the police had arrested him without sufficient evidence.
They kept grumbling that they were cold.
What are you moaning on about now?
Stop whining!
'I want to go home,' whined Toby.
She left early, complaining of a headache.
The most common complaint is about poor service.
We received a number of complaints from customers about the lack of parking facilities.
I'd like to make a complaint about the noise.
I believe you have a complaint against one of our nurses.
a complaint that he had been unfairly treated
a formal complaint
(formal) to file/lodge (= make) a complaint
I can see no grounds for complaint.
a letter of complaint
I'm afraid I'm not satisfied with this.
I'm sorry. This isn't acceptable/good enough. We've been waiting half an hour.
I'd like to make a complaint. The radio I bought doesn't work.
Excuse me—this isn't what I asked for. I'm having/I ordered the soup, not the salad.
I'd like to speak to the manager. I've got a complaint about something I bought.
a skin complaint
fair/dark complected
The excellent menu is complemented by a good wine list.
The team needs players who complement each other.
She complimented me on my English.
The different flavours complement each other perfectly.
She made some very complimentary remarks about my English.
There was a complimentary basket of fruit in our room.
The team members have different but complementary skills.
We've taken our full complement of trainees this year.
In the sentences 'I'm angry' and 'He became a politician', 'angry' and 'politician' are complements.
The school's approach must be complementary to that of the parents.
The designer has chosen the complementary colours blue and orange.
We were in complete agreement.
a complete change
in complete silence
a complete stranger
It came as a complete surprise.
I felt a complete idiot.
I've collected the complete set.
a complete guide to events in Oxford
the complete works of Tolstoy
You will receive payment for each complete day that you work.
The furniture comes complete with tools and instructions for assembly.
The book, complete with CD, costs £35.
Work on the office building will be complete at the end of the year.
the accuracy and completeness of the information
For the sake of completeness, all names are given in full.
She's just completed a master's degree in Law.
The project should be completed within a year.
2 000 shoppers completed our questionnaire.
I only need one more card to complete the set.
completely different
completely and utterly broke
I've completely forgotten her name.
The explosion completely destroyed the building.
the completion of the new hospital building
Satisfactory completion of the course does not ensure you a job.
The project is due for completion in the spring.
The road is nearing completion (= it is nearly finished).
the date of completion/the completion date
complex machinery
the complex structure of the human brain
a complex argument/problem/subject
a sports complex
an industrial complex (= a site with many factories)
This is just one of a whole complex of issues.
to suffer from a guilt complex
a pale/bad complexion
a move which changed the political complexion of the country
the increasing complexity of modern telecommunication systems
I was astonished by the size and complexity of the problem.
the complexities of the system
procedures that must be followed to ensure full compliance with the law
Safety measures were carried out in compliance with paragraph 6 of the building regulations.
By then, Henry seemed less compliant with his wife's wishes than he had six months before.
We should not be producing compliant students who do not dare to criticize.
This site is HTML compliant.
I do not wish to complicate the task more than is necessary.
To complicate matters further, there will be no transport available till 8 o'clock.
The issue is complicated by the fact that a vital document is missing.
a complicated system
The instructions look very complicated.
It's all very complicated—but I'll try and explain.
The bad weather added a further complication to our journey.
She developed complications after the surgery.
Several officers were complicit in the cover-up.
to be guilty of complicity in the murder
evident complicity between the two brothers
They refused to comply with the UN resolution.
to pay sb a compliment (= to praise them for sth)
'You understand the problem because you're so much older.' 'I'll take that as a compliment!'
It's a great compliment to be asked to do the job.
to return the compliment (= to treat sb in the same way as they have treated you)
My compliments to the chef!
(BrE) Compliments of the season!(= for Christmas or the New Year)
Please accept these flowers with the compliments of (= as a gift from) the manager.
She complimented him on his excellent German.
complimentary tickets for the show
a complimentary remark
She was extremely complimentary about his work.
the components of a machine
the car component industry
Key components of the government's plan are…
Trust is a vital component in any relationship.
Break the problem down into its component parts.
She always comports herself with great dignity.
She won admiration for her comportment during the trial.
Ten men compose the committee.
Mozart composed his last opera shortly before he died.
She composed a letter of protest.
Emma frowned, making an effort to compose herself.
I was so confused that I could hardly compose my thoughts.
The committee is composed mainly of lawyers.
She seemed outwardly composed.
a composite picture (= one made from several pictures)
The document was a composite of information from various sources.
the chemical composition of the soil
the composition of the board of directors
the structure of the building/human body
the social structure of society
the grammatical structures of a language
a salary structure
The report provides a framework for further research.
As a photographer, shape and form were more important to him than colour.
recent changes in the composition of the workforce
ships of steel construction
This is a trend which threatens the very fabric of society.
one of Beethoven's finest compositions
pieces performed in the order of their composition
to study composition
potting compost (= a mixture of soil and compost that you can buy to grow new plants in)
to keep/lose/recover/regain your composure
Common salt is a compound of sodium and chlorine.
a prison compound
a compound adjective, such as fair-skinned
A compound sentence contains two or more clauses.
The problems were compounded by severe food shortages.
The DNA molecule is compounded from many smaller molecules.
liquid soaps compounded with disinfectant
He stood staring at the dead body, unable to comprehend.
The infinite distances of space are too great for the human mind to comprehend.
She could not comprehend how someone would risk people's lives in that way.
He simply could not comprehend that she could be guilty.
I don't understand the instructions.
Doctors still don't understand much about the disease.
'It opens like this.' 'Oh, I see.'
Oh yes, I see what you mean.
She didn't get the joke.
I don't get you.
Sorry—I don't quite follow.
The plot is almost impossible to follow.
They failed to grasp the importance of his words.
It's a difficult concept for children to understand/grasp.
The concept of infinity is almost impossible for the human mind to comprehend.
easily/readily comprehensible to the average reader
speech and comprehension
His behaviour was completely beyond comprehension (= impossible to understand).
She had no comprehension of what was involved.
listening comprehension
a reading comprehension
They were comprehensively beaten in the final.
compressed air/gas
Her lips compressed into a thin line.
The main arguments were compressed into one chapter.
the compression of air
data compression
After lengthy talks the two sides finally reached a compromise.
In any relationship, you have to make compromises.
a compromise solution/agreement/candidate
This model represents the best compromise between price and quality.
Compromise is an inevitable part of life.
There is no prospect of compromise in sight.
Neither side is prepared to compromise.
After much argument, the judges finally compromised on (= agreed to give the prize to) the 18-year old pianist.
They were unwilling to compromise with the terrorists.
I refuse to compromise my principles.
We are not prepared to compromise on safety standards.
She had already compromised herself by accepting his invitation.
Defeat at this stage would compromise their chances (= reduce their chances) of reaching the finals of the competition.
The collection comprises 327 paintings.
The committee is comprised of representatives from both the public and private sectors.
Older people comprise a large proportion of those living in poverty.
compromising photos
They were discovered together in a compromising situation.
You are under no compulsion to pay immediately.
There are no compulsions on students to attend classes.
He felt a great compulsion to tell her everything.
compulsive eating/spending/gambling
a compulsive drinker/gambler/liar
The programme made compulsive viewing.
She watched him compulsively.
a compulsively readable book
It is compulsory for all motorcyclists to wear helmets.
English is a compulsory subject at this level.
compulsory education/schooling
compulsory redundancies
Over 600 workers were made compulsorily redundant.
a compulsory purchase order
She felt no compunction about leaving her job.
He had lied to her without compunction.
(NAmE) She has no compunctions about rejecting the plan.
All the statistical computations were performed by the new software system.
an error in the computation
computational methods
a computational approach
The losses were computed at £5 million.
a personal computer
Our sales information is processed by computer.
a computer program
computer software/hardware/graphics
a computer error
computer-aided design
a degree in computer science
Applicants need to be computerate.
The factory has been fully computerized.
computerized databases
The firm has computerized its records.
to work in computing
to study computing
educational/network/scientific computing
computing power/services/skills/systems
They were old army comrades.
There was a sense of comradeship between them.
The so-called bargain was just a big con!
(BrE) a con trick
(NAmE) a con game
He's a real con artist (= a person who regularly cheats others).
We weighed up the pros and cons.
I was conned into buying a useless car.
He conned his way into the job using false references.
a strange concatenation of events
a concave lens/mirror
The paintings were concealed beneath a thick layer of plaster.
She sat down to conceal the fact that she was trembling.
For a long time his death was concealed from her.
the concealment of crime
Many animals rely on concealment for protection.
She was absent for nine consecutive days.
He is beginning his fourth consecutive term of office.
'Not bad,' she conceded grudgingly.
He was forced to concede (that) there might be difficulties.
I had to concede the logic of this.
He reluctantly conceded the point to me.
He reluctantly conceded me the point.
It must be conceded that different judges have different approaches to these cases.
Yes, I suppose you're right. (especially BrE)
Yes, I guess you're right. (especially NAmE)
Yes, I see what you mean.
OK, I take/see your point about the expense, but I still think it's worth it.
Well, I guess you've got a point there.
OK, that's a good point.
No, possibly/I guess not.
I suppose not. (BrE)
Well/Yes/OK, I hadn't really appreciated/understood that before.
Well, I can't/won't argue with that.
That's true. We'll need to take that into consideration.
The President was obliged to concede power to the army.
England conceded a goal immediately after half-time.
Women were only conceded full voting rights in the 1950s.
After losing this decisive battle, the general was forced to concede.
Injury forced Hicks to concede defeat.
The ill-advised conceit of the guardian angel dooms the film from the start.
The idea of the wind singing is a romantic conceit.
a very conceited person
It's very conceited of you to assume that your work is always the best.
It is conceivable that I'll see her tomorrow.
a beautiful city with buildings of every conceivable age and style
The disease could conceivably be transferred to humans.
He conceived the idea of transforming the old power station into an arts centre.
God is often conceived of as male.
I cannot conceive (= I do not believe) (that) he would wish to harm us.
I cannot conceive what it must be like.
She is unable to conceive.
Their first child was conceived on their wedding night.
She is skilled at achieving consensus on sensitive issues.
There is a growing consensus of opinion on this issue.
an attempt to reach a consensus
There is a general consensus among teachers about the need for greater security in schools.
There seems to be a consensus that the plan should be rejected.
I can't concentrate with all that noise going on.
Nothing concentrates the mind better than the knowledge that you could die tomorrow (= it makes you think very clearly).
I decided to concentrate all my efforts on finding somewhere to live.
Power is largely concentrated in the hands of a small elite.
We need to concentrate resources on the most run-down areas.
Fighting was concentrated around the towns to the north.
In this lecture I shall concentrate on the early years of Charles's reign.
mineral concentrates found at the bottom of rivers
jams made with fruit juice concentrate
He made a concentrated effort to finish the work on time.
concentrated orange juice
a concentrated solution of salt in water
concentrated gunfire
This book requires a great deal of concentration.
Tiredness affects your powers of concentration.
a need for greater concentration on environmental issues
a concentration of industry in the north of the country
glucose concentrations in the blood
a Nazi concentration camp
concentric rings
the concept of social class
concepts such as 'civilization' and 'government'
He can't grasp the basic concepts of mathematics.
the concept that everyone should have equality of opportunity
The plan was brilliant in its conception but failed because of lack of money.
Marx's conception of social justice
He has no conception of how difficult life is if you're unemployed.
the moment of conception
a conceptual framework within which children's needs are assessed
a conceptual model
conceptually similar/distinct
Don't interfere in what doesn't concern you.
The loss was a tragedy for all concerned (= all those affected by it).
Where our children's education is concerned, no compromise is acceptable.
The individuals concerned have some explaining to do.
To whom it may concern … (= used for example, at the beginning of a public notice or of a job reference about sb's character and ability)
Everyone who was directly concerned in (= had some responsibility for) the incident has now resigned.
The story concerns the prince's efforts to rescue Pamina.
The book is primarily concerned with Soviet-American relations during the Cold War.
This chapter concerns itself with the historical background.
One major difference between these computers concerns the way in which they store information.
What concerns me is our lack of preparation for the change.
It concerns me that you no longer seem to care.
He didn't concern himself with the details.
She was concerned to write about situations that everybody could identify with.
There is growing concern about violence on television.
In the meeting, voters raised concerns about health care.
She hasn't been seen for four days and there is concern for her safety.
The report expressed concern over continuing high unemployment.
There is widespread concern that new houses will be built on protected land.
Stress at work is a matter of concern to staff and management.
The President's health was giving serious cause for concern.
parents' concern for their children
What are your main concerns as a writer?
The government's primary concern is to reduce crime.
This matter is their concern.
How much money I make is none of your concern.
a major publishing concern
Concerned parents held a meeting.
The President is deeply concerned about this issue.
He didn't seem in the least concerned for her safety.
She was concerned that she might miss the turning and get lost.
They were more concerned with how the other women had dressed than with what the speaker was saying.
He asked several questions concerning the future of the company.
All cases concerning children are dealt with in a special children's court.
a concert of music by Bach
a classical/rock/pop concert
They're in concert at Wembley Arena.
a concert hall/pianist
a concerted approach/attack/campaign
She has begun to make a concerted effort to find a job.
a piano concerto
a concerto for flute and harp
The truck crashed into the tree and concertinaed.
The firm will be forced to make concessions if it wants to avoid a strike.
to win a concession from sb
a major/an important concession
She made no concession to his age; she expected him to work as hard as she did.
the concession of university status to some colleges
(especially NAmE) McCain's concession speech (= when he admitted that he had lost the election)
tax concessions
Tickets are £3; there is a £1 concession for students.
Adults £2.50, concessions £2, family £5.
The Bolivian government has granted logging concessions covering 22 million hectares.
the burger concessions at the stadium
concessionary rates/fares/travel
I'd like some time to consider.
She considered her options.
a carefully considered response
The company is being actively considered as a potential partner (= it is thought possible that it could become one).
We're considering buying a new car.
We need to consider how the law might be reformed.
He was considering what to do next.
He considers himself an expert on the subject.
This award is considered (to be) a great honour.
These workers are considered (as) a high-risk group.
Consider yourself lucky you weren't fired.
Who do you consider (to be) responsible for the accident?
He's generally considered to have the finest tenor voice in the country.
She considers that it is too early to form a definite conclusion.
It is considered that the proposed development would create much-needed jobs.
You should consider other people before you act.
He stood there, considering the painting.
to have a clear/guilty conscience (= to feel that you have done right/wrong)
This is a matter of individual conscience (= everyone must make their own judgement about it).
He won't let it trouble his conscience.
She was seized by a sudden pang of conscience.
I have a terrible conscience about it.
freedom of conscience (= the freedom to do what you believe to be right)
Emilia is the voice of conscience in the play.
We cannot in all conscience refuse to help.
I'll write and apologize. I've had it on my conscience for weeks.
Her conscience pricked her as she lied to her sister.
a conscientious student/teacher/worker
She performed all her duties conscientiously.
A conciliation service helps to settle disputes between employers and workers.
a conciliatory approach/attitude/gesture/move
She's very conscious of the problems involved.
He became acutely conscious of having failed his parents.
I was vaguely conscious that I was being watched.
A patient who is not fully conscious should never be left alone.
to make a conscious decision
I made a conscious effort to get there on time.
a conscious act of cruelty
environmentally conscious
They have become increasingly health-conscious.
Consciously or unconsciously, you made a choice.
I can't remember any more—I must have lost consciousness.
She did not regain consciousness and died the next day.
his consciousness of the challenge facing him
class-consciousness (= consciousness of different classes in society)
her newly developed political consciousness
a concise summary
clear concise instructions
a concise dictionary
What do you conclude from that?
The report concluded (that) the cheapest option was to close the laboratory.
He concluded from their remarks that they were not in favour of the plan.
It was concluded that the level of change necessary would be low.
'So it should be safe to continue,' he concluded.
In conclusion, the study has provided useful insights into the issues relating to people's perception of crime.
Based on this study, it can be concluded that the introduction of new street lighting did not reduce reported crime.
To sum up, no evidence can be found to support the view that improved street lighting reduces reported crime.
The available evidence clearly leads to the conclusion that the media do have an influence on the public perception of crime.
The main conclusion to be drawn from this study is that public perception of crime is significantly influenced by crime news reporting.
This study has shown that people's fear of crime is out of all proportion to crime itself.
Fear of crime is out of all proportion to the actual level of crime, and the reasons for this can be summarized as follows. First…
Overall / In general, women are more likely than men to feel insecure walking alone after dark.
Let me make just a few concluding remarks.
The programme concluded with Stravinsky's 'Rite of Spring'.
He concluded by wishing everyone a safe trip home.
The commission concluded its investigation last month.
'Anyway, she should be back soon,' he concluded.
They concluded a treaty with Turkey.
A trade agreement was concluded between the two countries.
I've come to the conclusion that he's not the right person for the job.
It took the jury some time to reach the conclusion that she was guilty.
New evidence might lead to the conclusion that we are wrong.
We can safely draw some conclusions from our discussion.
The conclusion of the book was disappointing.
In conclusion (= finally), I would like to thank…
If we took this argument to its logical conclusion …
the successful conclusion of a trade treaty
There I go again—jumping to conclusions.
conclusive evidence/proof/results
to prove sth conclusively
The soup was concocted from up to a dozen different kinds of fish.
She concocted some elaborate story to explain her absence.
a concoction of cream and rum
living in concord with neighbouring states
a Bible concordance
There is reasonable concordance between the two sets of results.
the station concourse
a concrete floor
concrete evidence/proposals/proof
'It's only a suspicion,' she said, 'nothing concrete.'
It is easier to think in concrete terms rather than in the abstract.
a slab of concrete
The garden had been concreted over.
Historians have concurred with each other in this view.
The coroner concurred with this assessment.
He was imprisoned for two concurrent terms of 30 months and 18 months.
The prison sentences will run concurrently.
The doctor may seek the concurrence of a relative before carrying out the procedure.
an unfortunate concurrence of events
She was concussed after the fall.
(BrE) He was taken to hospital with concussion.
(NAmE) He was taken to the hospital with a concussion.
The government issued a statement condemning the killings.
The editor of the newspaper was condemned as lacking integrity.
He was condemned to death for murder and later hanged.
She was condemned to hang for killing her husband.
He was condemned to a life of hardship.
They were condemned to spend every holiday on a rainy campsite.
a condemned building
The meat was condemned as unfit to eat.
She is condemned out of her own mouth (= her own words show that she is guilty).
There was widespread condemnation of the invasion.
Steam condenses into water when it cools.
The steam was condensed rapidly by injecting cold water into the cylinder.
Condense the soup by boiling it for several minutes.
The article was condensed into just two pages.
The author has condensed a great deal of material into just 100 pages.
We had to wait almost an hour before he condescended to see us.
When giving a talk, be careful not to condescend to your audience.
Her smile was a mixture of pity and condescension.
He has a condescending attitude towards women.
to be in bad/good/excellent condition
a used car in perfect condition
the present state of medical knowledge
We're worried about his mental state.
What a state this room is in(= very bad).
The car is in excellent condition.
He is overweight and out of condition (= not physically fit).
You are in no condition (= too ill/sick, etc.) to go anywhere.
The motorcyclist was in a critical condition in hospital last night.
a medical condition
He suffers from a serious heart condition.
living/housing/working conditions
changing economic conditions
neglected children living under the most appalling conditions
a strike to improve pay and conditions
The plants grow best in cool, damp conditions.
freezing/icy/humid, etc. conditions
Conditions are ideal (= the weather is very good) for sailing today.
treacherous driving conditions
the terms and conditions of employment
The offer is subject to certain conditions.
They agreed to lend us the car on condition that (= only if) we returned it before the weekend.
They will give us the money on one condition —that we pay it back within six months.
(especially NAmE) They agreed under the condition that the matter be dealt with promptly.
Congress can impose strict conditions on the bank.
They have agreed to the ceasefire provided their conditions are met.
a necessary condition for economic growth
A good training programme is one of the conditions for successful industry.
He spoke angrily about the condition of the urban poor.
Work is basic to the human condition (= the fact of being alive).
You must on no condition tell them what happened.
the difference between inborn and conditioned reflexes (= reactions that are learned/not natural)
Patients can become conditioned to particular forms of treatment.
The rats had been conditioned to ring a bell when they wanted food.
Gender roles are often conditioned by cultural factors.
a shampoo that cleans and conditions hair
a polish for conditioning leather
conditional approval/acceptance
Payment is conditional upon delivery of the goods (= if the goods are not delivered, the money will not be paid).
He was found guilty and given a conditional discharge (= allowed to go free on particular conditions).
a conditional offer (= that depends on particular conditions being met)
a conditional sentence/clause
The offer was made conditionally.
the present/past/perfect conditional
the first/second/third conditional
shampoo and conditioner
fabric conditioner
Is personality the result of conditioning from parents and society, or are we born with it?
to give/offer/express your condolences
Our condolences go to his wife and family.
a letter of condolence
Terrorism can never be condoned.
Chairs in rows are not as conducive to discussion as chairs arranged in a circle.
to conduct an experiment/an inquiry/a survey
The negotiations have been conducted in a positive manner.
a concert by the London Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Marin Alsop
a conducted tour of Athens (= one with a guide, giving information about it)
The guide conducted us around the ruins of the ancient city.
He conducted himself far better than expected.
Copper conducts electricity well.
The sport has a strict code of conduct.
There was growing criticism of the government's conduct of the war.
a bus conductor
Wood is a poor conductor.
The organization had acted as a conduit for money from the arms industry.
a paper cone full of popcorn
the cone of a volcano
a pine cone
Scientists have established a connection between cholesterol levels and heart disease.
a direct/close/strong connection with sth
How did you make the connection (= realize that there was a connection between two facts that did not seem to be related)?
Connection to the gas supply was delayed for three days.
I'm having problems with my Internet connection.
A faulty connection caused the machine to stop.
We arrived in good time for the connection to Paris.
There are good bus and train connections between the resort and major cities.
One of my business connections gave them my name.
She is British but also has German connections.
A man has been arrested in connection with the murder of the teenager.
I am writing to you in connection with your recent job application.
the annual movie confab in Cannes
the Confederate flag
the Confederation of British Industry
He wanted to confer with his colleagues before reaching a decision.
An honorary degree was conferred on him by Oxford University in 2009.
The hotel is used for exhibitions, conferences and social events.
a conference room/centre/hall
She is attending a three-day conference on AIDS education.
The conference will be held in Glasgow.
delegates to the Labour Party's annual conference
Ministers from all four countries involved will meet at the conference table this week.
He was in conference with his lawyers all day.
Southeast Conference football champions
video conferencing
After hours of questioning, the suspect confessed.
She confessed to the murder.
He confessed that he had stolen the money.
We persuaded her to confess her crime.
She was reluctant to confess her ignorance.
I must confess to knowing nothing about computers.
I confess (that) I know nothing about computers.
'I know nothing about them,' he confessed.
(formal) I confess myself bewildered by their explanation.
After hours of questioning by police, she made a full confession.
I've a confession to make—I lied about my age.
to go to confession
to hear sb's confession
a confession of faith
The players all have confidence in their manager.
A fall in unemployment will help to restore consumer confidence.
a lack of confidence in the government
The new contracts have undermined the confidence of employees.
She has every confidence in her students' abilities.
He answered the questions with confidence.
People often lose confidence when they are criticized.
He gained confidence when he went to college.
She suffers from a lack of confidence.
While girls lack confidence, boys often overestimate their abilities.
I didn't have any confidence in myself at school.
They could not say with confidence that he would be able to walk again after the accident.
He expressed his confidence that they would win.
Eva told me about their relationship in confidence.
This is in the strictest confidence.
It took a long time to gain her confidence (= make her feel she could trust me).
The girls exchanged confidences.
I could never forgive Mike for betraying a confidence.
She took me into her confidence and told me about the problems she was facing.
a close/trusted confidant of the President
She confided all her secrets to her best friend.
He confided to me that he had applied for another job.
'It was a lie,' he confided.
It is important to have someone you can confide in.
She was in a relaxed, confident mood.
The teacher wants the children to feel confident about asking questions when they don't understand.
I'm confident that you will get the job.
confidential information/documents
Your medical records are strictly confidential (= completely secret).
He spoke in a confidential tone, his voice low.
a confidential secretary
She told me confidentially that she is going to retire early.
They signed a confidentiality agreement.
All letters will be treated with complete confidentiality.
a confiding relationship
The work will not be confined to the Glasgow area.
I will confine myself to looking at the period from 1900 to 1916.
Keep the dog confined in a suitable travelling cage.
Here the river is confined in a narrow channel.
The soldiers concerned were confined to barracks (= had to stay in the barracks, as a punishment).
She was confined to bed with the flu.
He was confined to a wheelchair after the accident.
It is cruel to keep animals in confined spaces.
her confinement to a wheelchair
years of confinement as a political prisoner
the expected date of confinement
a hospital/home confinement
It is beyond the confines of human knowledge.
the confines of family life
Rumours of job losses were later confirmed.
His guilty expression confirmed my suspicions.
Please write to confirm your reservation (= say that it is definite).
Has everyone confirmed (that) they're coming?
Can you confirm what happened?
It has been confirmed that the meeting will take place next week.
The walk in the mountains confirmed his fear of heights.
After a six-month probationary period, her position was confirmed.
He was confirmed as captain for the rest of the season.
I'm very happy to confirm you in your post.
She was baptized when she was a month old and confirmed when she was thirteen.
I'm still waiting for confirmation of the test results.
a confirmed bachelor (= a man who is not likely to get married, often used in newspapers to refer to a homosexual man)
Their land was confiscated after the war.
The teacher threatened to confiscate their phones if they kept using them in class.
a conflict between two cultures
The violence was the result of political and ethnic conflicts.
She found herself in conflict with her parents over her future career.
John often comes into conflict with his boss.
The government has done nothing to resolve the conflict over nurses' pay.
armed/military conflict
The story tells of a classic conflict between love and duty.
Her diary was a record of her inner conflict.
Many of these ideas appear to be in conflict with each other.
There was a conflict of interest between his business dealings and his political activities.
conflicting emotions/interests/loyalties
These results conflict with earlier findings.
Reports conflicted on how much of the aid was reaching the famine victims.
The organization is trying to combat trade in conflict diamonds in the war zone.
a confluence of social factors
What happens in cases where common law is not conformable to the constitution?
You need to ensure conformance to strict quality guidelines.
regulations that are in conformity with European law
The sudden rise in share prices has confounded economists.
to confound expectations
She confounded her critics and proved she could do the job.
the economic problems confronting the country
The government found itself confronted by massive opposition.
She knew that she had to confront her fears.
This was the first time he had confronted an armed robber.
He confronted her with a choice between her career or their relationship.
Most people when confronted with a horse will pat it.
She wanted to avoid another confrontation with her father.
confrontation between employers and unions
'Historic' and 'historical' are easily confusable.
The various types of owl are easily confusable with one another.
confusables such as 'principle' and 'principal'
They confused me with conflicting accounts of what happened.
People often confuse me and my twin sister.
Be careful not to confuse quantity with quality.
His comments only served to confuse the issue further.
People are confused about all the different labels on food these days.
He was depressed and in a confused state of mind.
I'm confused—say all that again.
The children gave a confused account of what had happened.
The instructions on the box are very confusing.
a very confusing experience
There is some confusion about what the correct procedure should be.
a confusion as to what to do next
To avoid confusion, please write the children's names clearly on all their school clothes.
confusion between letters of the alphabet like 'o' or 'a'
He looked at me in confusion and did not answer the question.
Fighting had broken out and all was chaos and confusion.
Her unexpected arrival threw us into total confusion.
congealed blood
The cold remains of supper had congealed on the plate.
(figurative) The bitterness and tears had congealed into hatred.
a congenial colleague
a congenial working environment
a situation that was congenial to the expression of nationalist opinions
congenital abnormalities
a congenital inability to tell the truth
(figurative) a congenital liar (= one who will not change)
congested city streets
Many of Europe's airports are heavily congested.
traffic congestion and pollution
congestion of the lungs
medicine to relieve nasal congestion
a media conglomerate
a conglomeration of buildings of different sizes and styles
I congratulated them all on their results.
The authors are to be congratulated on producing such a clear and authoritative work.
Congratulations on your engagement! I hope you'll be very happy.
Well done for passing your driving test.(BrE)
Good job on passing your exams.(NAmE)
I hear you did very well in your exams/you've got a new job/you've had a baby— congratulations!(BrE)
Jo tells me you're getting married— congratulations!
Thank you very much.
Oh, thanks!
You can congratulate yourself on having done an excellent job.
to offer/send your congratulations to sb
'We're getting married!' 'Congratulations!'
Congratulations on your exam results!
a letter of congratulation
a congratulatory message
Young people often congregate in the main square in the evenings.
The congregation stood to sing the hymn.
a congressional committee/bill
the midterm Congressional elections
an international congress of trades unions
Congress will vote on the proposals tomorrow.
the African National Congress
congruent triangles
coniferous trees/forests
She knew that if she said nothing she would be conniving in an injustice.
The government was accused of having connived with the security forces to permit murder.
The truth of his conjecture was confirmed by the newspaper report.
What was going through the killer's mind is a matter for conjecture.
We can only conjecture about what was in the killer's mind.
We can only conjecture what was in the killer's mind.
He conjectured that the population might double in ten years.
She conjectured the existence of a completely new species.
The remains are conjectured to be thousands of years old.
Her grandfather taught her to conjure.
He could conjure coins from behind people's ears.
That smell always conjures up memories of holidays in France.
He conjured a delicious meal out of a few leftovers.
conjugal love
How does this verb conjugate?
a verb with an irregular conjugation
Latin verbs of the second conjugation
The conjunction of low inflation and low unemployment came as a very pleasant surprise.
The police are working in conjunction with tax officers on the investigation.
The system is designed to be used in conjunction with a word processing program.
a conjuring trick
The car conked out halfway up the hill.
The towns are connected by train and bus services.
The canal was built to connect Sheffield with the Humber estuary.
a connecting door (= one that connects two rooms)
The rooms on this floor connect.
First connect the printer to the computer.
We're waiting for the telephone to be connected.
Click 'Continue' to connect to the Internet.
There was nothing to connect him with the crime.
I was surprised to hear them mentioned together: I had never connected them before.
His flight to Amsterdam connects with an afternoon flight to New York.
There's a connecting flight at noon.
Hold on please, I'm trying to connect you.
They met a couple of times but they didn't really connect.
The blow connected and she felt a surge of pain.
She connected up the two computers.
market prices and other connected matters
They are connected by marriage.
jobs connected with the environment
The two issues are closely connected.
the benefits of helping students feel a sense of connectedness to their school
connective tissue
Don't overuse a causal connective like 'because'.
ISDN connectivity allows computers to communicate over a network.
a cable connector
He had a conniption when he heard the news.
The crime was committed with the connivance of a police officer.
a connoisseur of Italian painting
a wine connoisseur
The Normans conquered England in 1066.
conquered peoples/races/territories
The world champion conquered yet another challenger last night.
The only way to conquer a fear is to face it.
Mont Blanc was conquered (= successfully climbed) in 1786.
The band is now setting out to conquer the world.
William the Conqueror (= King William I of England)
the Norman Conquest (= of England in 1066)
the Spanish conquests in South America
I'm just one of his many conquests.
the conquest of inflation
Children under 16 cannot give consent to medical treatment.
The written consent of a parent is required.
to refuse/withhold your consent
He is charged with taking a car without the owner's consent.
She was chosen as leader by common consent (= everyone agreed to the choice).
By mutual consent they didn't go out (= they both agreed not to).
When she told them what she intended they readily consented.
He reluctantly consented to his daughter's marriage.
People need to be conscientized about their rights.
He was conscripted into the army in 1939.
young army conscripts
conscript soldiers/armies
The church was consecrated in 1853.
consecrated ground
He was consecrated (as) bishop last year.
the consecration of a church/bishop
Listen to the counsel of your elders.
In the end, wiser counsels prevailed.
to be represented by counsel
the counsel for the defence/prosecution
defence/prosecuting counsel
The court then heard counsel for the dead woman's father.
Therapists were brought in to counsel the bereaved.
Most experts counsel caution in such cases.
He counselled them to give up the plan.
the British consul in Miami
consular officials
a consensual approach
consensual sex
This decision could have serious consequences for the industry.
Two hundred people lost their jobs as a direct consequence of the merger.
He drove too fast with tragic consequences.
to suffer/face/take the consequences of your actions
She died as a result of her injuries.
This book is the result of 25 years of research.
We are waiting to hear the final outcome of the negotiations.
Aggression is often the result of fear.
One consequence of changes in diet over recent years has been a dramatic increase in cases of childhood obesity.
Many parents today do not have time to cook healthy meals for their children. Consequently / As a consequence, many children grow up eating too much junk food.
Many children spend their free time watching TV instead of playing outside. As a result, more and more of them are becoming overweight.
Last year junk food was banned in schools. The effect of this has been to create a black market in the playground, with pupils bringing sweets from home to sell to other pupils.
Don't worry. It's of no consequence.
The child was born deformed in consequence of an injury to the mother.
the lowering of taxes and the consequent increase in spending
the responsibilities consequent upon the arrival of a new child
retirement and the consequential reduction in income
The report discusses a number of consequential matters that are yet to be decided.
This poses a threat to agriculture and the food chain, and consequently to human health.
the Thames Conservancy
Texas Nature Conservancy
nature conservancy
Help to conserve energy by insulating your home.
new laws to conserve wildlife in the area
to be interested in wildlife conservation
to encourage the conservation of water/fuel
energy conservation
a meeting of local conservationists
the innate conservatism of older people
an examination of the political theories of conservatism and liberalism
the conservative views of his parents
Her style of dress was never conservative.
Conservative members/supporters
At a conservative estimate, he'll be earning £50 000.
The project wasted a considerable amount of time and money.
Damage to the building was considerable.
The need for sleep varies considerably from person to person.
She is always polite and considerate towards her employees.
It was very considerate of him to wait.
Careful consideration should be given to issues of health and safety.
The proposals are currently under consideration (= being discussed).
After a few moments' consideration, he began to speak.
a consideration of the legal issues involved
economic/commercial/environmental/practical considerations
Time is another important consideration.
They showed no consideration whatsoever for my feelings.
Journalists stayed away from the funeral out of consideration for the bereaved family.
a small sum in consideration of your services
The candidates' experience and qualifications will be taken into consideration when the decision is made.
Taking everything into consideration, the event was a great success.
She's very active, considering her age.
Considering he's only just started, he knows quite a lot about it.
(informal) You've done very well, considering (= in the difficult circumstances).
I consigned her letter to the wastebasket.
What I didn't want was to see my mother consigned to an old people's home.
The decision to close the factory has consigned 6 000 people to the scrapheap.
A car accident consigned him to a wheelchair for the rest of his life.
a consignment of medicines
The beauty of the city consists in its magnificent buildings.
True education does not consist in simply being taught facts.
The committee consists of ten members.
Their diet consisted largely of vegetables.
Most of the fieldwork consisted of making tape recordings.
She has played with great consistency all season.
We need to ensure the consistency of service to our customers.
Beat the ingredients together to a creamy consistency.
The cement should have the consistency of wet sand.
She's not very consistent in the way she treats her children.
He has been Milan's most consistent (= most consistently good) player this season.
We must be consistent in applying the rules.
a consistent approach to the problem
the party's consistent failure to come up with any new policies
a pattern of consistent growth in the economy
The results are entirely consistent with our earlier research.
injuries consistent with a fall from an upper storey (= similar to those such a fall would have caused)
a well-thought-out and consistent argument
Her work has been of a consistently high standard.
We have argued consistently for a change in the law.
Unemployment is high in her constituency.
He owns a house in his Darlington constituency.
constituency opinion
your right to vote under the constitution
According to the constitution…
to propose a new amendment to the Constitution
the South African Constitution
to have a healthy/strong/weak constitution
the genetic constitution of cells
He recommended the constitution of a review committee.
constitutional government/reform
a constitutional amendment
They can't pass this law. It's not constitutional.
constitutional rights
a constitutional monarchy (= a country with a king or queen whose power is controlled by a set of laws and basic principles)
constitutional remedies
constitutionally guaranteed rights
He was much weakened constitutionally by the disease.
a few words of consolation
If it's any consolation, she didn't get the job, either.
The children were a great consolation to him when his wife died.
Nothing could console him when his wife died.
She put a consoling arm around his shoulders.
Console yourself with the thought that you did your best.
I didn't like lying but I consoled myself that it was for a good cause.
'Never mind,' Anne consoled her.
With this new movie he has consolidated his position as the country's leading director.
Italy consolidated their lead with a second goal.
All the debts have been consolidated.
consolidated accounts
The two companies consolidated for greater efficiency.
the consolidation of power
the consolidation of Japan's banking industry
a policy that is popular because of its consonance with traditional party doctrine
the Anglo-French consortium that built the Channel Tunnel
the Prince Consort (= the queen's husband)
He is known to have consorted with prostitutes.
Mary's red hair always made her conspicuous at school.
I felt very conspicuous in my new car.
The advertisements were all posted in a conspicuous place.
The event was a conspicuous success (= a very great one).
Women were conspicuously absent from (= there were surprisingly few women on) the planning committee.
a conspiracy to overthrow the government
conspiracies against the president
They were charged with conspiracy to murder.
a conspiracy of silence (= an agreement not to talk publicly about sth which should be made public)
a conspiracy theory (= the belief that a secret conspiracy is responsible for a particular event)
'I know you understand,' he said and gave a conspiratorial wink.
They were accused of conspiring against the king.
They deny conspiring together to smuggle drugs.
She admitted conspiring with her lover to murder her husband.
Circumstances had conspired against them.
Everything conspired to make her life a misery.
Have you finished your report, Constable?
constraints of time/money/space
financial/economic/legal/political constraints
This decision will impose serious constraints on all schools.
The EU has set strict limits on pollution levels.
the speed limit
There are no restrictions on the amount of money you can withdraw.
arms control
We have to work within severe constraints of time and money.
The government has imposed export restraints on some products.
The unions are unlikely to accept any sort of wage restraint.
They would resist any limitation of their powers.
moral/social/cultural restraints
At last we could relax and talk without constraint.
He admired her courage and constancy.
Fashion is constantly changing.
Heat the sauce, stirring constantly.
constant interruptions
a constant stream of visitors all day
Babies need constant attention.
This entrance is in constant use.
travelling at a constant speed of 50 m.p.h.
a constellation of Hollywood talent
The announcement of her retirement caused consternation among tennis fans.
She has the full support of her constituents.
to break something up into its constituent parts/elements
Does such an activity constitute a criminal offence?
The increase in racial tension constitutes a threat to our society.
Female workers constitute the majority of the labour force.
The committee was constituted in 1974 by an Act of Parliament.
They questioned the constitutionality of the law.
Memory is constitutive of identity.
The evidence was so compelling that he felt constrained to accept it.
Research has been constrained by a lack of funds.
She felt constrained from continuing by the threat of losing her job.
constrained emotions
Her throat constricted and she swallowed hard.
a drug that constricts the blood vessels
Film-makers of the time were constricted by the censors.
constricting rules and regulations
Her throat felt dry and constricted.
a constricted vision of the world
a feeling of constriction in the chest
political constrictions
When was the bridge constructed?
They constructed a shelter out of fallen branches.
You must learn how to construct a logical argument.
to construct a theory
a well-constructed novel
to construct a triangle
a contrast between lived reality and the construct held in the mind
the construction industry
road construction
Work has begun on the construction of the new airport.
Our new offices are still under construction (= being built).
the construction of a new database
strong in construction
The summer house was a simple wooden construction.
grammatical constructions
the construction of a new theory
What construction do you put on this letter (= what do you think it means)?
constructive criticism/suggestions/advice
His work involved helping hyperactive children to use their energy in a constructive way.
The government is encouraging all parties to play a constructive role in the reform process.
He considered how the remark was to be construed.
Her words could hardly be construed as an apology.
If the pain continues, consult your doctor.
Have you consulted your lawyer about this?
a consulting engineer (= one who has expert knowledge and gives advice)
(NAmE) Consult with your physician about possible treatments.
You shouldn't have done it without consulting me.
I expect to be consulted about major issues.
I need to consult with my colleagues on the proposals.
He consulted the manual.
a management/design/computer, etc. consultancy
consultancy fees
a firm of management consultants
the President's consultant on economic affairs
a consultant in obstetrics
a consultant surgeon
a consultation document/paper/period/process
acting in consultation with all the departments involved
The decision was taken after close consultation with local residents.
extensive consultations between the two countries
There is a large collection of texts available for consultation on-screen.
a consultative committee/body/document
consumable electronic goods
computer consumables such as CD-Rs and printer cartridges
She was a consummate performer.
He played the shot with consummate skill.
(disapproving) a consummate liar
The marriage lasted only a week and was never consummated.
The electricity industry consumes large amounts of fossil fuels.
Before he died he had consumed a large quantity of alcohol.
Carolyn was consumed with guilt.
Rage consumed him.
The hotel was quickly consumed by fire.
consumer demand/choice/rights
Health-conscious consumers want more information about the food they buy.
a consumer society (= one where buying and selling is considered to be very important)
Tax cuts will boost consumer confidence after the recession.
consumerist values
Basketball is his consuming passion.
The paintings are the consummation of his life's work.
the production of fuel for domestic consumption (= to be used in the country where it is produced)
Gas and oil consumption always increases in cold weather.
The meat was declared unfit for human consumption.
He was advised to reduce his alcohol consumption.
Her speech to party members was not intended for public consumption (= to be heard by the public).
Consumption rather than saving has become the central feature of contemporary societies.
cont. on p74
I don't have much contact with my uncle.
There is little contact between the two organizations.
Have you kept in contact with any of your friends from college (= do you still see them or speak or write to them)?
She's lost contact with (= no longer sees or writes to) her son.
I finally made contact with (= succeeded in speaking to or meeting) her in Paris.
The organization put me in contact with other people in a similar position (= gave me their addresses or telephone numbers).
two people avoiding eye contact (= avoiding looking directly at each other)
Here's my contact number (= temporary telephone number) while I'm away.
I'll give you my contact details (= telephone number, email address, etc.).
His fingers were briefly in contact with the ball.
This substance should not come into contact with food.
a fear of physical contact
This pesticide kills insects on contact (= as soon as it touches them).
In her job she often comes into contact with (= meets) lawyers.
Children should be brought into contact with poetry at an early age.
We have good contacts with the local community.
The company has maintained trade contacts with India.
social/personal contacts
I've made some useful contacts in journalism.
The switches close the contacts and complete the circuit.
The receptionist is the first point of contact most people have with the clinic.
I've been trying to contact you all day.
I'll be contactable on this number:…
to wear contact lenses
contactless cards
a contactless payment
Scarlet fever is highly contagious.
(figurative) His enthusiasm was contagious (= spread quickly to other people).
a contagious laugh
There is no risk of contagion.
The drinking water has become contaminated with lead.
contaminated blood/food/soil
They were accused of contaminating the minds of our young people.
radioactive contamination
This drink doesn't contain any alcohol.
Her statement contained one or two inaccuracies.
a brown envelope containing dollar bills
The bottle contains (= can hold) two litres.
She was unable to contain her excitement.
I was so furious I just couldn't contain myself (= I had to express my feelings).
to contain an epidemic
Government forces have failed to contain the rebellion.
Food will last longer if kept in an airtight container.
a container ship (= one designed to transport such containers)
containerized cargo
the containment of the epidemic
a policy of containment
Filters do not remove all contaminants from water.
We have no contemporary account of the battle (= written near the time that it happened).
He was contemporary with the dramatist Congreve.
life in contemporary Britain
contemporary fiction/music/dance
She and I were contemporaries at college.
He was a contemporary of Freud and may have known him.
You're too young to be contemplating retirement.
I have never contemplated living abroad.
He continued while she contemplated how to answer.
The thought of war is too awful to contemplate.
I can't contemplate what it would be like to be alone.
She contemplated that things might get even worse.
to contemplate your future
She lay in bed, contemplating.
She contemplated him in silence.
He sat there deep in contemplation.
a few moments of quiet contemplation
a life of prayer and contemplation
She turned from her contemplation of the photograph.
By 1613 even more desperate measures were in contemplation.
She was in contemplative mood.
the contemplative life (= life in a religious community)
How do we know that the signature is contemporaneous with the document?
contemporaneous events/accounts
She looked at him with contempt.
I shall treat that suggestion with the contempt it deserves.
His treatment of his children is beneath contempt (= so unacceptable that it is not even worth feeling contempt for).
Politicians seem to be generally held in contempt by ordinary people.
They had shown a contempt for the values she thought important.
The firefighters showed a contempt for their own safety.
His remarks betray a staggering contempt for the truth (= are completely false).
He could be jailed for two years for contempt.
She was held in contempt for refusing to testify.
Any person who disregards this order will be in contempt of court.
contemptible behaviour
She gave him a contemptuous look.
He was contemptuous of everything I did.
to laugh contemptuously
I would contend that the minister's thinking is flawed on this point.
Three armed groups were contending for power.
Nurses often have to contend with violent or drunken patients.
a contender for a gold medal in the Olympics
a leading/serious/strong contender for the party leadership
One area of contention is the availability of nursery care.
a point of contention
It is our client's contention that the fire was an accident.
I would reject that contention.
Only three teams are now in contention for the title.
He tipped the contents of the bag onto the table.
Fire has caused severe damage to the contents of the building.
She hadn't read the letter and so was unaware of its contents.
a table of contents (= the list at the front of a book)
a contents page
Your tone of voice is as important as the content of what you have to say.
The content of the course depends on what the students would like to study.
Her poetry has a good deal of political content.
food with a high fat content
the alcohol content of a drink
online content providers
Not content with stealing my boyfriend (= not thinking that this was enough), she has turned all my friends against me.
He seemed more content, less bitter.
He had to be content with third place.
I was content to wait.
Martina contented herself with a bowl of soup.
My apology seemed to content him.
a supervised play area where children can run around to their heart's content
a contented smile
He was a contented man.
She smiled contentedly.
a contentious issue/topic/subject
Both views are highly contentious.
a contentious meeting
He has found contentment at last.
a sigh of contentment
He derived great satisfaction from knowing that his son was happy.
Money can't buy you happiness.
The sight of her son graduating filled her with pride.
They found contentment in living a simple life.
her search for personal fulfilment
a singing contest
a talent contest
to enter/win/lose a contest
a contest for the leadership of the party
Three candidates contested the leadership.
a hotly/fiercely/keenly contested game (= one in which the players try very hard to win and the scores are close)
to contest a will (= try to show that it was not correctly made in law)
The divorce was not contested.
Please welcome our next contestant.
This speech needs to be set in the context of Britain in the 1960s.
His decision can only be understood in context.
You should be able to guess the meaning of the word from the context.
This quotation has been taken out of context (= repeated without referring to the rest of the text).
contextual information
contextual clues to the meaning
The largest contingent was from the United States.
A strong contingent of local residents were there to block the proposal.
the French contingent in the UN peacekeeping force
All payments are contingent upon satisfactory completion dates.
the spread of contingent work throughout the economy
The countries are contiguous.
The bruising was not contiguous to the wound.
the continent of Africa
the African continent
We're going to spend a weekend on the Continent.
a popular continental holiday resort
Britain's continental neighbours
a continental lifestyle
The shutters and the balconies make the street look almost continental.
Prices are often higher in Hawaii than in the continental United States.
continental Antarctica/Asia/Europe
to study continental geography
The continentals have never understood our preference for warm beer.
We must consider all possible contingencies.
to make contingency plans (= plans for what to do if a particular event happens or does not happen)
a contingency fund (= to pay for sth that might happen in the future)
She was in continuous employment until the age of sixty-five.
The rain has been continuous since this morning.
a continuous line of traffic
For four days the town suffered continuous attacks.
Life was a continual struggle for them.
the continuous tenses
He has lived and worked in France almost continuously since 1990.
We are grateful for your continued/continuing support.
continued interest
continuing involvement
It is impossible to say at what point along the continuum a dialect becomes a separate language.
continual complaints/interruptions
He was in a continual process of rewriting his material.
We lived in continual fear of being discovered.
Her daughter was a continual source of delight to her.
They argue continually about money.
the need to adapt to new and continually changing circumstances
New products are continually being developed.
We can no longer support the President's continuance in office.
The judge refused his motion for a continuance.
continuant consonants
They are anxious to ensure the continuation of the economic reform programme.
This year saw a continuation in the upward trend in sales.
Her new book is a continuation of her autobiography.
There are plans to build a continuation of the bypass next year.
The exhibition continues until 25 July.
The trial is expected to continue for three months.
The rain continued to fall all afternoon.
The rain continued falling all afternoon.
She wanted to continue working until she was 60.
He continued to ignore everything I was saying.
Are you going to continue with the project?
The board of inquiry is continuing its investigations.
The path continued over rough, rocky ground.
He continued on his way.
I want you to continue as project manager.
She will continue in her present job until a replacement can be found.
The story continues in our next issue.
The story will be continued in our next issue.
Please continue—I didn't mean to interrupt.
'In fact,' he continued, 'I'd like to congratulate you.'
to ensure/provide/maintain continuity of fuel supplies
The novel fails to achieve narrative continuity.
There are obvious continuities between diet and health.
a trio for two violins and continuo
a controlled explosion
a controlled environment
controlled airspace
a British-controlled company
computer-controlled systems
She remained quiet and controlled.
His face contorted with anger.
Her mouth was contorted in a snarl.
contorted limbs/bodies
(figurative) It was a contorted version of the truth.
Their bodies had suffered contortion as a result of malnutrition.
His facial contortions amused the audience of schoolchildren.
(figurative) We had to go through all the usual contortions (= a difficult series of actions) to get a ticket.
The road follows the natural contours of the coastline.
She traced the contours of his face with her finger.
a contour map (= a map that includes these lines)
It is smoothly contoured to look like a racing car.
contoured hills/maps
contraflow
contradict
a contrabassoon
contraband goods
to smuggle contraband
to give advice about contraception
oral contraceptives
a contraceptive pill
contraceptive advice/precautions/methods
a contract of employment
a research contract
to enter into/make/sign a contract with the supplier
These clauses form part of the contract between buyer and seller.
a contract for the supply of vehicles
to win/be awarded a contract to build a new school
a contract worker (= one employed on a contract for a fixed period of time)
I was on a three-year contract that expired last week.
Under the terms of the contract the job should have been finished yesterday.
She is under contract to (= has a contract to work for) a major American computer firm.
The offer has been accepted, subject to contract (= the agreement is not official until the contract is signed).
They were sued for breach of contract (= not keeping to a contract).
to take out a contract on sb
Glass contracts as it cools.
a contracting market
The heart muscles contract to expel the blood.
The exercise consists of stretching and contracting the leg muscles.
'I will' and 'I shall' are usually contracted (= made shorter) to 'I'll'.
to contract AIDS/a virus/a disease
The player is contracted to play until August.
Several computer engineers have been contracted to the finance department.
She has contracted to work 20 hours a week.
Many employees contracted out of the pension plan.
a building/haulage, etc. contractor
to employ an outside contractor
the expansion and contraction of the metal
The sudden contraction of the markets left them with a lot of unwanted stock.
The contractions started coming every five minutes.
'He's' may be a contraction of 'he is' or 'he has'.
All evening her husband contradicted everything she said.
You've just contradicted yourself (= said the opposite of what you said before).
'No, it's not,' she contradicted (him).
The two stories contradict each other.
There is a contradiction between the two sets of figures.
His public speeches are in direct contradiction to his personal lifestyle.
How can we resolve this apparent contradiction?
I think I can say, without fear of contradiction, that…
Now you say you both left at ten—that's a contradiction of your last statement.
We are faced with two apparently contradictory statements.
The advice I received was often contradictory.
A contraflow system is in operation on this section of the motorway.
This drug is contraindicated in patients with asthma.
She showed us a strange contraption that looked like a satellite dish.
Contrary to popular belief, many cats dislike milk.
The government has decided that the publication of the report would be 'contrary to the public interest'.
contrary advice/opinions/arguments
The contrary view is that prison provides an excellent education—in crime.
In the end the contrary was proved true: he was innocent and she was guilty.
'It must have been terrible.' 'On the contrary, I enjoyed every minute.'
I don't find him funny at all. Quite the contrary.
Show me some evidence to the contrary (= proving that sth is not true).
I will expect to see you on Sunday unless I hear anything to the contrary (= that you are not coming).
She was such a contrary child—it was impossible to please her.
It worked contrariwise—first you dialled the number, then you put the money in.
There is an obvious contrast between the cultures of East and West.
The company lost $7 million this quarter in contrast to a profit of $6.2 million a year earlier.
The situation when we arrived was in marked contrast to the news reports.
The poverty of her childhood stands in total contrast to her life in Hollywood.
to show a sharp/stark/striking contrast with sth
A wool jacket complements the silk trousers and provides an interesting contrast in texture.
When you look at their new system, ours seems very old-fashioned by contrast.
Careful contrast of the two plans shows some important differences.
The work you did today is quite a contrast to (= very much better/worse than) what you did last week.
The artist's use of contrast is masterly.
Use this button to adjust the contrast.
It is interesting to contrast the British legal system with the American one.
The poem contrasts youth and age.
Her actions contrasted sharply with her promises.
Her actions and her promises contrasted sharply.
bright, contrasting colours
The book explores contrasting views of the poet's early work.
a contrastive analysis of British and Australian English
The company was found guilty of contravening safety regulations.
These actions are in contravention of European law.
a highly controversial topic
a controversial plan to build a new road
Winston Churchill and Richard Nixon were both controversial figures.
to arouse/cause controversy
a bitter controversy over/about the site of the new airport
the controversy surrounding his latest movie
The President resigned amid considerable controversy.
We contributed £5 000 to the earthquake fund.
Would you like to contribute to our collection?
Do you wish to contribute?
Medical negligence was said to have contributed to her death.
Human error may have been a contributing factor.
Immigrants have contributed to British culture in many ways.
This book contributes little to our understanding of the subject.
She contributed a number of articles to the magazine.
He contributes regularly to the magazine 'New Scientist'.
We hope everyone will contribute to the discussion.
Older people are important contributors to the economy.
Sulphur dioxide is a pollutant and a major contributor to acid rain.
Alcohol is a contributory factor in 10% of all road accidents.
a contributory pension scheme/plan (= paid for by both employers and employees)
to make a contribution to charity
a substantial contribution
All contributions will be gratefully received.
valuable contributions towards the upkeep of the cathedral
monthly contributions to the pension scheme
ten monthly payments of $50
payment in advance
an insurance premium
a premium for express delivery
You can increase your monthly contributions to the pension plan.
a subscription to 'Newsweek'
the repayments on the loan
We've put down a 5% deposit on the house.
We paid for the car by/in instalments.
He made a very positive contribution to the success of the project.
the car's contribution to the greenhouse effect
These measures would make a valuable contribution towards reducing industrial accidents.
an important contribution to the debate
All contributions for the May issue must be received by Friday.
We rely entirely on voluntary contribution.
a look of contrition
The film is spoilt by unrealistic contrivances of plot.
The story is told with a complete absence of contrivance.
an ingenious contrivance to get her to sign the document without reading it
She contrived to spend a couple of hours with him every Sunday evening.
I decided to contrive a meeting between the two of them.
They contrived a plan to defraud the company.
a contrived situation
The book's happy ending seemed contrived.
The party is expecting to gain control of the council in the next election.
The Democrats will probably lose control of Congress.
A military junta took control of the country.
The city is in the control of enemy forces.
The city is under enemy control.
The teacher had no control over the children.
She struggled to keep control of her voice.
She lost control of her car on the ice.
He got so angry he lost control (= shouted and said or did things he would not normally do).
Owing to circumstances beyond our control, the flight to Rome has been cancelled.
The coach made the team work hard on ball control (= in a ball game).
traffic control
talks on arms control
government controls on trade and industry
A new advance has been made in the control of malaria.
Price controls on food were ended.
a pest control officer
the controls of an aircraft
the control panel
the volume control of a CD player
The co-pilot was at the controls when the plane landed.
One group was treated with the new drug, and the control group was given a sugar pill.
air traffic control
We went through passport control and into the departure lounge.
This is Mission Control calling the space shuttle Discovery.
By the age of 21 he controlled the company.
The whole territory is now controlled by the army.
Can't you control your children?
government attempts to control immigration
Many biological processes are controlled by hormones.
Parents should control what their kids watch on television.
Firefighters are still trying to control the blaze.
She was given drugs to control the pain.
This knob controls the volume.
The traffic lights are controlled by a central computer.
I was so furious I couldn't control myself and I hit him.
He was finding it difficult to control his feelings.
a temperature controller
to be arrested for possession of a controlled substance
She is convalescing at home after her operation.
You need four to six weeks' convalescence.
a convalescent home (= a type of hospital where people go to get well after an illness)
a convalescent child
I treated him as a convalescent, not as a sick man.
It is very convenient to pay by credit card.
You'll find these meals quick and convenient to prepare.
Fruit is a convenient source of vitamins and energy.
A bicycle is often more convenient than a car in towns.
I can't see him now—it isn't convenient.
I'll call back at a more convenient time.
(disapproving) He used his wife's birthday as a convenient excuse for not going to the meeting.
(BrE) The house is very convenient for several schools.
(NAmE) The hotel is convenient to downtown.
The report can be conveniently divided into three main sections.
The hotel is conveniently situated close to the beach.
She conveniently forgot to mention that her husband would be at the party, too (= because it suited her not to say).
God's covenant with Abraham
a covenant to a charity
All profits are covenanted to medical charities.
to convene a meeting
A Board of Inquiry was convened immediately after the accident.
The committee will convene at 11.30 next Thursday.
We have provided seats for the convenience of our customers.
For (the sake of) convenience, the two groups have been treated as one in this report.
In this resort you can enjoy all the comfort and convenience of modern tourism.
It was a great convenience to have the school so near.
The house had all the modern conveniences (= central heating, etc.) that were unusual at that time.
conventional behaviour/morality
She's very conventional in her views.
conventional methods/approaches
conventional medicine
It's not a hotel, in the conventional sense, but rather a whole village turned into a hotel.
You can use a microwave or cook it in a conventional oven.
conventional forces/weapons
a conventional power station (= using oil or coal as fuel, rather than nuclear power)
conventionally dressed
conventionally grown food (= grown according to conventional methods)
Conventional wisdom has it that riots only ever happen in cities.
social conventions
By convention the deputy leader was always a woman.
She is a young woman who enjoys flouting conventions.
to hold a convention
the Democratic Party Convention (= to elect a candidate for president)
the Geneva convention
the United Nations convention on the rights of the child
the conventions of Greek tragedy
Thousands of supporters converged on London for the rally.
There was a signpost where the two paths converged.
convergent lines/opinions
You need to become fully conversant with the company's procedures.
I had a long conversation with her the other day.
The main topic of conversation was the likely outcome of the election.
Don was deep in conversation with the girl on his right.
(BrE) to get into conversation with sb
(NAmE) to get into a conversation with sb
The conversation turned to gardening.
I tried to make conversation (= to speak in order to appear polite).
Do you mind if I sit here?
Hello, is this seat taken?
May I join you? Can I get you a coffee?
Lovely weather we're having!/Can you believe this rain/wind/cold/sunshine?
Excuse me, could I ask you a question?
Shall we make a start? I think it's almost three o'clock.(BrE)
Shall we get started? I'd like to introduce our speaker.(especially NAmE)
I think everyone's here, so I'd like to welcome you to this conference.
a casual and conversational tone
I learnt conversational Spanish at evening classes.
Men have a more direct conversational style.
'Have you been here long?' he asked conversationally.
Building new roads increases traffic and the converse is equally true: reducing the number and size of roads means less traffic.
the converse effect
You can add the fluid to the powder, or, conversely, the powder to the fluid.
the conversion of farm buildings into family homes
No conversion from analogue to digital data is needed.
a metric conversion table (= showing how to change metric amounts into or out of another system)
a firm which specializes in house conversions (= turning large houses into several smaller flats/apartments)
the conversion of the Anglo-Saxons by Christian missionaries
his conversion from Judaism to Christianity
The hotel is going to be converted into a nursing home.
What rate will I get if I convert my dollars into euros?
We've converted from oil to gas central heating.
a sofa that converts into a bed
He converted from Christianity to Islam.
She was soon converted to the socialist cause.
I've converted to organic food.
I didn't use to like opera but my husband has converted me.
a convert to Islam
converts from other faiths
a convert to the cause
a convertible sofa (= one that can be used as a bed)
convertible currencies (= ones that can be exchanged for those of other countries)
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares.
a catalytic converter
a convex lens/mirror
Colours like red convey a sense of energy and strength.
(formal) Please convey my apologies to your wife.
He tried desperately to convey how urgent the situation was.
She did not wish to convey that they were all at fault.
Pipes convey hot water from the boiler to the radiators.
the conveyance of goods by rail
horse-drawn conveyances
a convicted murderer
He was convicted of fraud.
an escaped convict
She has six previous convictions for theft.
He plans to appeal against his conviction.
an offence which carries, on conviction, a sentence of not more than five years' imprisonment
strong political/moral convictions
She was motivated by deep religious conviction.
a conviction that all would be well in the end
'Not true!' she said with conviction.
He said he agreed but his voice lacked conviction.
The leader's speech in defence of the policy didn't carry much conviction.
You'll need to convince them of your enthusiasm for the job.
I'd convinced myself (that) I was right.
I've been trying to convince him to see a doctor.
I tried to persuade her to see a doctor.
He convinced me he was right.
I persuaded/convinced her to see a doctor.
Sam nodded but he didn't look convinced.
I am convinced of her innocence.
I am convinced that she is innocent.
a convinced Christian
a convincing argument/explanation/case
She sounded very convincing to me (= I believed what she said).
a convincing victory/win (= an easy one)
Her case was convincingly argued.
They won convincingly.
a convivial evening/atmosphere
convivial company
a convoluted argument/explanation
a book with a convoluted plot
a convoluted coastline
the bizarre convolutions of the story
the convolutions of the brain
a convoy of trucks/lorries/freighters
A United Nations aid convoy loaded with food and medicine finally got through to the besieged town.
We drove in convoy because I didn't know the route.
A violent shiver convulsed him.
His whole body convulsed.
The child went into convulsions.
a convulsive movement/attack/fit
Her breath came in convulsive gasps.
weeping convulsively
Coo, look at him!
There's loads of cheap accommodation within cooee of the airport.
Where did you learn to cook?
What's the best way to cook trout?
Who's going to cook supper?
He cooked lunch for me.
He cooked me lunch.
While the pasta is cooking, prepare the sauce.
Everyone is being very secretive—there's something cooking.
to cook up a story
John is a very good cook (= he cooks well).
Who was the cook (= who cooked the food)?
She was employed as a cook in a hotel.
a gas cooker
an electric cooker
a cookery course
Italian cookery
chocolate chip cookies
a cookie jar
Learn about our cookie policy.
Handmade goods appeal to those who are tired of cookie-cutter products.
My husband does all the cooking.
a book on Indian cooking
The restaurant offers traditional home cooking (= food similar to that cooked at home).
They serve good French cooking.
cooking sherry
a cool breeze/drink/climate
Cooler weather is forecast for the weekend.
Let's sit in the shade and keep cool.
Store lemons in a cool dry place.
a room painted in cool greens and blues
Keep cool!
She tried to remain cool, calm and collected (= calm).
He has a cool head (= he stays calm in an emergency).
She was decidedly cool about the proposal.
They gave the Prime Minister a cool reception.
You look pretty cool with that new haircut.
It's a cool movie.
'We're meeting Jake for lunch and we can go on the yacht in the afternoon.' 'Cool!'
'Can you come at 10.30 tomorrow?' 'That's cool.'
I was surprised that she got the job, but I'm cool with it (= it's not a problem for me).
She just took his keys and walked out with them, cool as you please.
The car cost a cool thirty thousand.
We need to take a long hard look at all the options.
The cylinder is cooled by a jet of water.
I think we should wait until tempers have cooled.
Relations between them have definitely cooled (= they are not as friendly with each other as they were).
We cooled off with a swim in the lake.
I think you should wait until she's cooled down a little.
Drink plenty of cold water to cool yourself down.
A few hours in a police cell should cool him off.
It's a wonderful place to cool out with a glass of beer.
It sounds like he needs some time to cool out.
the cool of the evening
a cool-headed assessment of the situation
the office water cooler
(especially NAmE) They took a cooler full of drinks to the beach.
a wine cooler
'We're just good friends,' she said coolly.
He received my suggestion coolly.
the delicious coolness of the water
I admire her coolness under pressure.
I noticed a certain coolness (= lack of friendly feeling) between them.
The two groups agreed to cooperate with each other.
They had cooperated closely in the planning of the project.
Their captors told them they would be killed unless they cooperated.
a report produced by the government in cooperation with the chemical industry
We would like to see closer cooperation between parents and schools.
We would be grateful for your cooperation in clearing the hall as quickly as possible.
Cooperative activity is essential to effective community work.
Employees will generally be more cooperative if their views are taken seriously.
a cooperative farm
agricultural cooperatives in India
The factory is now a workers' cooperative.
a need for greater coordination between departments
a lack of coordination in conservation policy
a pamphlet produced by the government in coordination with (= working together with) the Sports Council
advice on colour coordination (= choosing colours that look nice together, for example in clothes or furniture)
You need good hand-eye coordination to play ball games.
They appointed a new manager to coordinate the work of the team.
We need to develop a coordinated approach to the problem.
This shade coordinates with a wide range of other colours.
The campaign needs an effective coordinator.
the x, y coordinates of any point on a line
Somebody call the cops!
children playing cops and robbers
a TV cop show
He's not much cop as a singer.
He copped all the hassle after the accident.
Cop a load of this! (= Listen to this)
Who did he cop off with at the party?
You're not going to cop out at the last minute, are you?
Not turning up was just a cop-out.
I got to the stage where I wasn't coping any more.
He wasn't able to cope with the stresses and strains of the job.
Desert plants are adapted to cope with extreme heat.
I will send you a copy of the report.
The thieves replaced the original painting with a copy.
You should make a copy of the disk as a backup.
a copy of 'The Times'
The book sold 20 000 copies within two weeks.
The subeditors prepare the reporters' copy for the paper and write the headlines.
This will make great copy for the advertisement.
Could I have ten copies of this page, please?
They copied the designs from those on Greek vases.
Everything in the computer's memory can be copied onto DVDs.
She copied the phone number into her address book.
I copied out several poems.
She copies everything her sister does.
Their tactics have been copied by other terrorist organizations.
Can you copy me in on your report?
copious (= large) amounts of water
I took copious notes.
She supports her theory with copious evidence.
bleeding copiously
multinational corporations
the Chrysler corporation
urban development corporations
a copper mine
copper pipes
copper-coloured hair
I only paid a few coppers for it.
a copper-bottomed guarantee
coppery hair
It was a copybook operation by the police.
Who owns the copyright on this song?
Copyright expires seventy years after the death of the author.
They were sued for breach/infringement of copyright.
copyright material
a coquettish smile
Cor! Look at that!
coral reefs/islands
a coral necklace
coral lipstick
a piece/length of cord
picture cord (= used for hanging pictures)
a silk bag tied with a gold cord
an electrical cord
telephone cord
a cord jacket
a pair of cords
a corded phone
a cordial atmosphere/meeting/relationship
I was greeted with a show of cordiality.
blackcurrant cordial
You are cordially invited to a celebration for Mr Michael Brown on his retirement.
They cordially detest each other.
a cordless phone/drill
Demonstrators broke through the police cordon.
Police cordoned off the area until the bomb was made safe.
a cordon bleu chef
cordon bleu cuisine
a corduroy jacket
the earth's core
the core of a nuclear reactor
the core of the argument
Concern for the environment is at the core of our policies.
He gathered a small core of advisers around him.
She was shaken to the core by the news.
He's a politician to the core (= in all his attitudes and actions).
core subjects (= subjects that all the students have to study) such as English and mathematics
the core curriculum
We need to concentrate on our core business.
The use of new technology is core to our strategy.
The party is losing touch with its core values.
The team is built around a core group of players.
Your account and hers do not correspond.
Your account of events does not correspond with hers.
The written record of the conversation doesn't correspond to (= is different from) what was actually said.
The British job of Lecturer corresponds roughly to the US Associate Professor.
Corinthian columns/capitals
a cork mat
cork tiles
a field of corn
ears/sheaves of corn
a corneal transplant
the four corners of a square
Write your address in the top right-hand corner of the letter.
I hit my knee on the corner of the table.
A smile lifted the corner of his mouth.
a speck of dirt in the corner of her eye
a three-cornered hat
a three-cornered fight
There was a television in the far corner of the room.
a corner table/seat/cupboard
There was a group of youths standing on the street corner.
Turn right at the corner of Sunset and Crescent Heights Boulevards.
There's a hotel on/at the corner of my street.
The wind hit him as he turned the corner.
The car was taking the corners too fast.
She lives in a quiet corner of rural Yorkshire.
Students come here from the four corners of the world.
He knew every corner of the old town.
to back/drive/force sb into a corner
They had got her in a corner, and there wasn't much she could do about it.
He was used to talking his way out of tight corners.
to take a corner
The referee awarded a corner.
Out of the corner of her eye, she saw him coming closer.
The man was finally cornered by police in a garage.
If cornered, the snake will defend itself.
I found myself cornered by her on the stairs.
They've cornered the market in silver.
The car has excellent cornering (= it is easy to steer around corners).
This study is the cornerstone of the whole research programme.
an ice-cream cornet
a corny joke/song
I know it sounds corny, but it really was love at first sight!
The book is a cornucopia of good ideas.
Acid corrodes metal.
(figurative) Corruption corrodes public confidence in a political system.
The copper pipework has corroded in places.
Look for signs of corrosion.
Clean off any corrosion before applying the paint.
coronary (heart) disease
a coronary patient (= sb suffering from coronary disease)
corporate finance/planning/strategy
corporate identity (= the image of a company, that all its members share)
corporate hospitality (= when companies entertain customers to help develop good business relationships)
The BBC is a corporate body.
The law applies to both individuals and corporate bodies.
corporate responsibility
Corporal Smith
his corporeal presence
corporeal needs
the commander of the third army corps
the Royal Army Medical Corps
a corps of trained and experienced doctors
a corpus of 100 million words of spoken English
the whole corpus of Renaissance poetry
red/white corpuscles
They drove the ponies into a corral.
Do you have the correct time?
the correct answer
Please check that these details are correct.
'Are you in charge here?' 'That's correct.'
Am I correct in saying that you know a lot about wine?
Are the following statements true or false?
Is it true (that) she's leaving?
I got about half the answers right.
What's the right time?
Only one of the answers is correct.
Check that all the details are correct.
Do you know the correct way to shut the machine down?
I think you've made the correct decision.
You're right to be cautious.
You made the right decision.
'It's not easy.' 'Yes, you're right.'
What's the correct way to shut the machine down?
I don't think she's correct to say he's incompetent.
a correct young lady
He is always very correct in his speech.
Have you spelled it correctly?
They reasoned, correctly, that she was away for the weekend.
He was looking correctly grave.
The correctness of this decision may be doubted.
Read through your work and correct any mistakes that you find.
Their eyesight can be corrected in just a few minutes by the use of a laser.
They issued a statement correcting the one they had made earlier.
I spent all evening correcting essays.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but isn't this last year's brochure?
Yes, you're right— I stand corrected (= I accept that I made a mistake).
'It's Yates, not Wates,' she corrected him.
I'll be there at five fifteen, I mean five fifty—ten to six.
It'll be Tuesday— sorry, I meant to say Thursday.
Sorry, what I mean is, we need two handouts per person.
We can meet in the conference centre— or rather in front of the centre.
The painter— or should I say, the sculptor—was born in Padua.
It's one t and double s— no, sorry, one s and double t.
It's on the fifth floor— no, actually, it's the fourth.
Can I get two lattes and an espresso— no, scratch that, three lattes.(NAmE, informal)
I've made a few small corrections to your report.
The paper had to publish a correction to the story.
There are some programming errors that need correction.
the correction of young offenders
I don't know. Correction—I do know, but I'm not going to tell you.
a correctional center/institution/facility (= a prison)
We need to take corrective action to halt this country's decline.
corrective measures
corrective surgery/glasses
I should like to add a corrective to what I have written previously.
The figures do not seem to correlate.
A high-fat diet correlates with a greater risk of heart disease.
Researchers are trying to correlate the two sets of figures.
There is a direct correlation between exposure to sun and skin cancer.
the correlation of social power with wealth
A change in the money supply brings a corresponding change in expenditure.
Profits have risen by 15 per cent compared with the corresponding period last year.
The Redskins lost to the Cowboys in the corresponding game last year.
Give each picture a number corresponding to its position on the page.
a period of high demand and correspondingly high prices
personal/private correspondence
The editor welcomes correspondence from readers on any subject.
the correspondence column/page (= in a newspaper)
Jane Austen's correspondence with her sister
I refused to enter into any correspondence (= to exchange letters) with him about it.
We have been in correspondence for months.
We kept up a correspondence for many years.
There is a close correspondence between the two extracts.
the BBC's political correspondent
a foreign/war/sports, etc. correspondent
our Delhi correspondent
She's a poor correspondent (= she does not write regularly).
His room is along the corridor.
the electronics industry in the M4 corridor
The evidence was corroborated by two independent witnesses.
corroborating evidence
Is there any corroborative evidence for this theory?
the corrosive effects of salt water
corrosive acid
Unemployment is having a corrosive effect on our economy.
a corrugated iron roof
corrugated cardboard
a corrupt regime
corrupt officials accepting bribes
corrupt practices
The whole system is inefficient and corrupt.
corrupt software
The file on the disk seems to be corrupt.
He was corrupted by power and ambition.
the corrupting effects of great wealth
a corrupted form of Buddhism
The program has somehow corrupted the system files.
corrupted data
The disk will corrupt if it is overloaded.
allegations of bribery and corruption
The new district attorney has promised to fight police corruption.
He claimed that sex and violence on TV led to the corruption of young people.
The word 'holiday' is a corruption of 'holy day'.
the cerebral/renal cortex (= around the brain/ kidney )
coruscating wit
coruscatingly brilliant
I can't see her at all, cos it's too dark.
Our side was under the cosh for most of the second half.
a cosy little room
a cosy feeling
I felt warm and cosy sitting by the fire.
a cosy chat with a friend
The firm has a cosy relationship with the Ministry of Defence.
The danger is that things get too cosy.
sitting cosily by the fire
the warmth and cosiness of the kitchen
the cosmetics industry
a cosmetic company
cosmetic products
These reforms are not merely cosmetic.
She dismissed the plan as a cosmetic exercise to win votes.
cosmetic surgery
cosmetic dental work
Do you believe in a cosmic plan?
This was disaster on a cosmic scale.
a cosmopolitan city/resort
The club has a cosmopolitan atmosphere.
people with a truly cosmopolitan outlook
cosmopolitan young people
She's a real cosmopolitan.
the structure of the cosmos
our place in the cosmos
the high/low cost of housing
A new computer system has been installed at a cost of £80 000.
The plan had to be abandoned on grounds of cost.
We did not even make enough money to cover the cost of the food.
Consumers will have to bear the full cost of these pay increases.
The total cost to you (= the amount you have to pay) is £3 000.
house prices
How much are these? They don't have a price on them.
I can't afford it at that price.
The winner will receive a prize to the value of £1 000.
This restaurant is excellent value(= is worth the money it costs).
to ask/charge a high price
the cost of moving house
The house now has a market value of one million pounds.
The garden was transformed at great expense.
Running a car is a big expense.
He has a personal net worth of $10 million.
The use of cheap labour helped to keep costs down.
to cut/reduce costs
running/operating/labour costs
We have had to raise our prices because of rising costs.
labour/production costs
rising costs
public spending
More spending on health was promised.
expenditure on education
legal expenses
travel expenses
High overheads mean small profit margins.
The best equipment is costly but is well worth the outlay.
the terrible cost of the war in death and suffering
the environmental cost of nuclear power
She saved him from the fire but at the cost of her own life (= she died).
He worked non-stop for three months, at considerable cost to his health.
I felt a need to please people, whatever the cost in time and energy.
He was ordered to pay £2 000 costs.
He's a ruthless businessman, as I know to my cost.
The town is now counting the cost of its failure to provide adequate flood protection.
How much did it cost?
I didn't get it because it cost too much.
Tickets cost ten dollars each.
Calls to the helpline cost 38p per minute.
Don't use too much of it—it cost a lot of money.
All these reforms will cost money (= be expensive).
Good food need not cost a fortune (= cost a lot of money).
The meal cost us about £40.
This is costing the taxpayer £10 billion a year.
The hospital will cost an estimated £2 billion to build.
It costs a fortune to fly first class.
That one mistake almost cost him his life.
A late penalty cost United the game (= meant that they did not win the game).
The closure of the factory is likely to cost 1 000 jobs.
The accident cost me a visit to the doctor.
Financial worries cost her many sleepless nights.
The project needs to be costed in detail.
Their accountants have costed the project at $8.1 million.
Have you costed out these proposals yet?
That one mistake has cost him dear over the years.
There is a deluxe model available, but it'll cost you.
a steady rise in the cost of living
Despite the high cost of living, London is a great place to live.
Copies of the CD can be purchased at cost price.
cost-benefit analysis
Deliveries of mail could be delayed because of cost-cutting.
a cost-cutting exercise/measure/programme
Here is a detailed costing of our proposals.
You'd better do some costings.
Buying new furniture may prove too costly.
I can't afford it—it's just too expensive for me.
an expensive restaurant
You want to avoid costly legal proceedings if you can.
ridiculously overpriced designer clothes
Houses in the village are now too pricey for local people to afford.
Everything's so dear now, isn't it?
a costly mistake/failure
Mining can be costly in terms of lives (= too many people can die).
The actors were still in costume and make-up.
She has four costume changes during the play.
He went to the party in a giant chicken costume.
a costume designer
a firm of theatrical costumiers
a travel cot (= one that can be moved around easily, used when travelling)
a charming country cottage with roses around the door
(BrE) a holiday cottage
Weaving and knitting are traditional cottage industries.
cotton fields/plants
bales of cotton
The sheets are 100% pure cotton.
a cotton shirt/skirt
printed cotton cloth
the cotton industry
a cotton mill
sewing cotton
a cotton reel
Use a cotton ball to apply the lotion.
I suddenly cottoned on to what he was doing.
cotton wool balls
on the psychiatrist's couch
The letter was deliberately couched in very vague terms.
I couldn't stop coughing.
to cough nervously/politely/discreetly
Sometimes she coughed (up) blood.
Steve finally coughed up the money he owed us.
She gave a little cough to attract my attention.
to have a dry/persistent/hacking cough
My cold's better, but I can't seem to shake off this cough.
Another fit of coughing seized him.
She said that she couldn't come.
I couldn't hear what they were saying.
Sorry, I couldn't get any more.
Could I use your phone, please?
Could we stop by next week?
Could you babysit for us on Friday?
I could do it now, if you like.
Don't worry—they could have just forgotten to call.
You couldn't have left it on the bus, could you?
'Have some more cake.' 'Oh, I couldn't, thank you (= I'm too full).'
We could write a letter to the director.
You could always try his home number.
They could have let me know they were going to be late!
I'm so fed up I could scream!
I could do with a drink!
Her hair could have done with a wash.
The weather was so bad we might just as well have stayed at home.
a city/county/borough/district council
She's on the local council.
a council member/meeting
council workers/services
the Medical Research Council
In Britain, the Arts Council gives grants to theatres.
The King held a council at Nottingham from 14 to 19 October 1330.
Councillor Ann Jones
Talk to your local councillor about the problem.
marriage guidance counselling
a student counselling service
a marriage guidance counsellor
Billy can't count yet.
She can count up to 10 in Italian.
to count from 1 to 10
The diet is based on counting calories.
She began to count up how many guests they had to invite.
There are 12 weeks to go, counting from today.
We have invited 50 people, not counting the children.
Every point in this game counts.
It's the thought that counts (= used about a small but kind action or gift).
The fact that she had apologized counted for nothing with him.
Don't go over that line or your throw won't count.
Applications received after 1 July will not be counted.
For tax purposes that money counts/is counted as income.
I count him among my closest friends.
I count myself lucky to have known him.
She counts herself one of the lucky ones.
I've seen the film five times, but who's counting?
For that job her lack of experience may count against her.
She's already counting down to the big day.
I hear you're organizing a trip to the game next week? Count me in!
'I'm sure he'll help.' ' Don't count on it.'
Few people can count on having a job for life.
We can't count on this warm weather lasting.
She counted out $70 in $10 bills.
If you're going out tonight you'll have to count me out.
Students gain college credits which count towards their degree.
The bus driver did a quick count of the empty seats.
If the election result is close, there will be a second count.
The body count (= the total number of people who have died) stands at 24.
Raise your leg and hold for a count of ten.
He was knocked to the ground and stayed down for a count of eight (= in boxing).
a raised white blood cell count
They were found guilty on all counts.
She appeared in court on three counts of fraud.
I disagree with you on both counts.
Count Tolstoy
Keep a count of your calorie intake for one week.
I lost count and had to start again.
She had lost count of the number of times she'd told him to be careful (= she could not remember because there were so many).
the countdown to the wedding
The committee refused to countenance his proposals.
I asked the woman behind the counter if they had any postcards.
The needle on the rev counter soared.
The employers' association was seen as a counter to union power.
These tablets are available over the counter.
Such arguments are not easily countered.
I tried to argue but he countered that the plans were not yet finished.
'But I was standing right here!' he countered.
Butler has countered with a lawsuit against the firm.
Businesses would like to see new laws to counter late payments of debts.
The government's plans run counter to agreed European policy on this issue.
counterterrorism
counter-argument
counterpart
These results seem counter-intuitive.
These exercises aim to counteract the effects of stress and tension.
Parents' natural desire to protect their children should be counterbalanced by the child's need for independence.
The accused's right to silence was a vital counterbalance to the powers of the police.
counterfactual questions such as 'What if the President had not been assassinated?'
an interesting exercise in counterfactual history
'What if' questions involving counterfactuals are familiar in historical speculations.
counterfeit watches
Are you aware these notes are counterfeit?
The Foreign Minister held talks with his Chinese counterpart.
The women's shoe, like its male counterpart, is specifically designed for the serious tennis player.
The two melodies are played in counterpoint.
This work is in austere counterpoint to that of Gaudi.
counterproductive behaviour/policies/effects
the Earl and Countess of Rosebery
the southern counties
county boundaries
Orange County
I've warned her countless times.
The new treatment could save Emma's life and the lives of countless others.
European countries
leading industrial countries
She didn't know what life in a foreign country would be like.
It's good to meet people from different parts of the country.
the member states of the EU
The state provides free education.
open/wooded, etc. country
superb walking country
Explore Thomas Hardy country.
They have the support of most of the country.
The rich benefited from the reforms, not the country as a whole.
to live in the country
We spent a pleasant day in the country.
a country lane
She lives in the country.
an area of wooded country
This pattern of woods and fields is typical of the English landscape.
a little village in the French countryside
The truck bumped its way over the rough terrain.
Many younger people are leaving the land to find work in the cities.
We stopped on the mountain pass to admire the scenery.
pop, folk and country
It's a free country; I'll say what I like!
a country and western singer
He won the race by a country mile.
a countrymade pistol
The champion looks set to play his fellow countryman in the final.
The surrounding countryside is windswept and rocky.
magnificent views over open countryside
Everyone should enjoy the right of access to the countryside.
a countrywide mail-order service
The film will be released in London in March and countrywide in May.
a member of Lancashire County Council
He seized power in a military coup in 2008.
to stage/mount a coup
an attempted coup
a failed/an abortive coup
She lost her position in a boardroom coup (= a sudden change of power among senior managers in a company).
Getting this contract has been quite a coup for us.
My disastrous exam results dealt the coup de grâce to my university career.
I saw a couple of men get out.
a couple of minutes
We went there a couple of years ago.
I've seen her a couple of times before.
I'll be with you in a minute. There are a couple of things I have to do first.
There are a couple more files to read first.
We can do it in the next couple of weeks.
The last couple of years have been difficult.
married couples
a young/an elderly couple
Several couples were on the dance floor.
The couple was/were married in 2006.
Do you need any more glasses? I've got a couple I can lend you.
It's only a couple blocks away.
The two train cars had been coupled together.
CDTV uses a CD-ROM system that is coupled to a powerful computer.
Overproduction, coupled with falling sales, has led to huge losses for the company.
a poem written in rhyming couplets
a coupling of Mozart's Prague Symphony and Schubert's Unfinished Symphony (= for example, on the same CD)
illicit couplings
money-off coupons
clothing coupons
an international reply coupon
Fill in and return the attached coupon.
He showed great courage and determination.
I haven't yet plucked up the courage to ask her.
moral/physical courage
courage in the face of danger
Taking her courage in both hands, she opened the door and walked in.
I finally screwed up my courage and went to the dentist.
a very courageous decision
I hope people will be courageous enough to speak out against this injustice.
We sent the documents by courier.
Courier that letter—it needs to get there today (= send it by courier ).
a French/chemistry, etc. course
to take/do a course in art and design
to go on a management training course
The college runs specialist language courses.
a degree course
a two-year postgraduate course leading to a master's degree
a physics course
a course of ten lectures
a physics course/program
a program of ten lectures
I have to take a physics course/class.
a two-year college course
a two-year college program
The plane was on/off course (= going/not going in the right direction).
He radioed the pilot to change course.
They set a course for the islands.
The president appears likely to change course on some key issues.
Politicians are often obliged to steer a course between incompatible interests.
There are various courses open to us.
What course of action would you recommend?
The wisest course would be to say nothing.
an event that changed the course of history
The unexpected course of events aroused considerable alarm.
a four-course dinner
The main course was roast duck.
He set a new course record.
She was overtaken on the last stretch of the course.
The path follows the course of the river.
to prescribe a course of antibiotics
A new damp-proof course could cost £1 000 or more.
The new textbook is in course of preparation.
He's seen many changes in the course of his long life.
The company faces major challenges over the course of the next few years.
It is possible that in the course of time a cure for cancer will be found.
In the normal course of things we would not treat her disappearance as suspicious.
'Don't you like my mother?' 'Of course I do!'
'Will you be there?' 'Course I will.'
'Can I come, too?' 'Course you can.'
'Can I have one of those pens?' 'Of course—help yourself.'
'I did all I could to help.' 'Of course,' he murmured gently.
Ben, of course, was the last to arrive.
Of course, there are other ways of doing this.
'Is this the right room for the English class?' 'Yes, it is.'
'Can I borrow your dictionary?' 'Certainly.'(formal)
'Sure.'(informal)
'Do you mind if I borrow your dictionary?' 'Not at all.'
'Go ahead.'(informal)
'It's a lovely day.' 'It certainly is.'/'Yes it is.'
'I think you'll enjoy that play.' 'I'm sure I will.'/'Yes, it sounds really good.'
'Are you going?' 'Of course not.'
'Do you mind?' 'No, of course not.'
The American economy is on course for higher inflation than Britain by the end of the year.
When her tears had run their course, she felt calmer and more in control.
With minor ailments the best thing is often to let nature take its course.
Your request will be dealt with in due course.
Very few of the trainees have stayed the course.
Coursework accounts for 40% of the final marks.
hare coursing
the civil/criminal courts
Her lawyer made a statement outside the court.
She will appear in court tomorrow.
They took their landlord to court for breaking the contract.
The case took five years to come to court (= to be heard by the court).
There wasn't enough evidence to bring the case to court (= start a trial).
He won the court case and was awarded damages.
She can't pay her tax and is facing court action.
The case was settled out of court (= a decision was reached without a trial).
The prison is opposite the law court.
I was at school with her sister.
I have a ten-year-old in school.
Please tell the court what happened.
a tennis/squash/badminton court
He won after only 52 minutes on court.
the court of Queen Victoria
the food court at the shopping mall
Both candidates have spent the last month courting the media.
He has never courted popularity.
to court danger/death/disaster
As a politician he has often courted controversy.
At that time they had been courting for several years.
He was convicted at a court martial.
All the men now face court martial.
He was court-martialled for desertion.
a courteous young man
The hotel staff are friendly and courteous.
I was treated with the utmost courtesy by the staff.
It's only common courtesy to tell the neighbours that we'll be having a party (= the sort of behaviour that people would expect).
an exchange of courtesies before the meeting
The pictures have been reproduced by courtesy of the British Museum.
Win a weekend in Rome, courtesy of Fiat.
Viewers can see the stadium from the air, courtesy of a camera fastened to the plane.
Please do me the courtesy of listening to what I'm saying.
You think he'd at least have the courtesy to call to say he'd be late.
A courtesy bus operates between the hotel and the town centre.
The dealer will provide you with a courtesy car while your vehicle is being repaired.
They married after a short courtship.
Mr Elton's courtship of Harriet
courtship displays
the company's courtship by the government
the central/inner courtyard
She's my cousin.
We're cousins.
He's a distant cousin of mine.
our American cousins
Asian elephants are smaller than their African cousins.
a couture evening dress
a secluded cove
Cover the chicken loosely with foil.
(figurative) He laughed to cover (= hide) his nervousness.
Snow covered the ground.
Much of the country is covered by forest.
The players were soon covered in mud.
The wind blew in from the desert and covered everything with sand.
The survey covers all aspects of the business.
The lectures covered a lot of ground (= a lot of material, subjects, etc.).
the sales team covering the northern part of the country (= selling to people in that area)
Do the rules cover (= do they apply to) a case like this?
$100 should cover your expenses.
Your parents will have to cover your tuition fees.
The show barely covered its costs.
By sunset we had covered thirty miles.
They walked for a long time and covered a good deal of ground.
The reserve covers an area of some 1 140 square kilometres.
She's covering the party's annual conference.
The BBC will cover all the major games of the tournament.
I'm covering for Jane while she's on leave.
I have to go out for a minute—will you cover for me if anyone asks where I am?
Are you fully covered for fire and theft?
Does this policy cover my husband to drive?
One reason doctors take temperatures is to cover themselves against negligence claims.
Cover me while I move forward.
The police covered the exits to the building.
Don't move—we've got you covered!
They've covered an old Rolling Stones number.
He had attempted to cover his tracks by making her death appear like suicide.
The Roman remains are now covered over by office buildings.
He covered up the body with a sheet.
a cushion cover
a plastic waterproof cover for the stroller
Everyone ran for cover when it started to rain.
The climbers took cover from the storm in a cave.
After the explosion the street was full of people running for cover.
the front/back cover
Her face was on the cover (= the front cover) of every magazine.
He always reads the paper from cover to cover (= everything in it).
accident cover
cover against accidental damage
The ships needed air cover (= protection by military planes) once they reached enemy waters.
The total forest cover of the earth is decreasing.
Fog and low cloud cover are expected this afternoon.
In this area there is snow cover for six months of the year.
She threw back the covers and leapt out of bed.
His work as a civil servant was a cover for his activities as a spy.
Her over-confident attitude was a cover for her nervousness.
It would only take one phone call to blow their cover (= make known their true identities and what they were really doing).
It's the manager's job to organize cover for staff who are absent.
Ambulance drivers provided only emergency cover during the dispute.
a police officer working under cover
Later, under cover of darkness, they crept into the house.
The information you requested is being forwarded to you under separate cover.
Government sources denied there had been a deliberate cover-up.
media/newspaper/press coverage
tonight's live coverage of the hockey game
magazines with extensive coverage of diet and health topics
The volume offers an incomplete coverage of the history of philosophy.
Immunization coverage against fatal diseases has increased to 99% in some countries.
The service has a coverage of 90% of the UK population.
insurance coverage
Medicaid health coverage for low-income families
His face was covered in blood.
The walls were covered with pictures.
a covered area of the stadium with seats
a thick covering of snow on the ground
floor/wall coverings
He pulled the plastic covering off the dead body.
covert operations/surveillance
He stole a covert glance at her across the table.
She watched him covertly in the mirror.
He had long coveted the chance to work with a famous musician.
They are this year's winners of the coveted trophy (= that everyone would like to win).
cow's milk
a herd of dairy cows (= cows kept for their milk)
You stupid cow!
Don't have a cow—it's no big deal.
She was easily cowed by people in authority.
You coward! What are you afraid of?
I'm a real coward when it comes to going to the dentist.
a cowardly attack on a defenceless man
children playing a game of cowboys and Indians
A gun went off and people cowered behind walls and under tables.
Cowpeas are an important crop in many African countries.
She gave me a coy smile.
She was a little coy about how much her dress cost.
a cozy little room
a cozy feeling
I felt warm and cozy sitting by the fire.
a cozy chat with a friend
The firm has a cozy relationship with the Department of Defense.
The danger is that things get too cozy.
sitting cozily by the fire
the warmth and coziness of the kitchen
dressed crab
The ice cracked as I stepped onto it.
He has cracked a bone in his arm.
Her lips were dry and cracked.
A chunk of the cliff had cracked off in a storm.
(figurative) His face cracked into a smile.
to crack a nut
She cracked an egg into the pan.
I cracked my head on the low ceiling.
He cracked me on the head with a ruler.
A shot cracked across the ridge.
[no passive] He cracked his whip and galloped away.
In a voice cracking with emotion, he told us of his son's death.
Things are terrible at work and people are cracking under the strain.
They questioned him for days before he cracked.
The old institutions are cracking.
to crack the enemy's code
(informal) After a year in this job I think I've got it cracked!
Police have cracked a major drugs ring.
There's a lot to be done, so let's get cracking.
He's not nearly such a good writer as he's cracked up to be.
Police are cracking down on drug dealers.
If we crack on with the painting we should finish it today.
Time was cracking on and we were nowhere near finished.
You'll crack up if you carry on working like this.
He walked in and everyone just cracked up.
Gill's so funny, she just cracks me up.
This cup has a crack in it.
Cracks began to appear in the walls.
(figurative) The cracks (= faults) in the government's economic policy are already beginning to show.
She peeped through the crack in the curtains.
The door opened a crack (= a small amount).
a crack of thunder
the sharp crack of a rifle shot
She fell over and got a nasty crack on the head.
She hopes to have another crack at the world record this year.
a crack addict
He made a very unfair crack about her looks.
Where's the crack tonight?
He's a person who enjoys a drink and a bit of crack.
crack troops
He's a crack shot (= accurate and skilled at shooting).
a crackbrained idea
a military crackdown on student protesters
a crackdown on crime
a cracked mirror/mug
He suffered cracked ribs and bruising.
She passed her tongue over her cracked lips and tried to speak.
'I'm just fine,' she said in a cracked voice.
I think he must be cracked, don't you?
Who wants to pull this cracker with me?
It was a cracker of a goal.
I've got a joke for you. It's a real cracker!
That noise is driving me crackers.
All planes are being inspected for possible cracking and corrosion.
the cracking of thunder/twigs
That was a cracking goal.
She's in cracking form at the moment.
We set off at a cracking pace (= very quickly).
a cracking good (= extremely good) dinner
A log fire crackled in the hearth.
The radio crackled into life.
(figurative) The atmosphere crackled with tension.
the distant crackle of machine-gun fire
She picked up the phone and heard a crackly voice saying: 'Sue here.'
He could hear the crackling of burning trees.
crackpot ideas/theories
She rocked the baby to sleep in its cradle.
Greece, the cradle of Western civilization
The old man cradled the tiny baby in his arms.
traditional crafts like basket-weaving
a craft fair/workshop
Craft, Design and Technology (= a subject in some British schools)
chefs who learned their craft in top hotels
the writer's craft
He knew how to win by craft and diplomacy what he could not gain by force.
Hundreds of small craft bobbed around the liner as it steamed into the harbour.
a landing/pleasure craft
All the furniture is crafted from natural materials.
a carefully crafted speech
He's a crafty old devil.
one of the party's craftiest political strategists
rugs handmade by local craftsmen
It is clearly the work of a master craftsman.
The whole house is a monument to her craftsmanship.
the superb craftsmanship of the carvings
a castle set on a crag above the village
a craggy coastline
He crammed eight people into his car.
I could never cram in all that she does in a day.
I managed to cram down a few mouthfuls of food.
Supporters crammed the streets.
I bought a large basket and crammed it full of presents.
We all managed to cram into his car.
He's been cramming for his exams all week.
All the shelves were crammed with books.
The room was crammed full of people.
The article was crammed full of ideas.
We were crammed four to an office.
(BrE) to get cramp in your leg
(NAmE) to get a cramp in your leg
Tighter trade restrictions might cramp economic growth.
working in cramped conditions
cranberry sauce
People were craning out of the windows and waving.
She craned her neck to get a better view of the stage.
cranial nerves/injuries
Vegetarians are no longer dismissed as cranks.
to crank an engine
(figurative) He has a limited time to crank the reforms into action.
Crank up the volume!
cranky ideas/schemes
The kids were getting tired and a little cranky.
He's so full of crap.
Let's cut the crap and get down to business.
(BrE) You're talking a load of crap!
(NAmE) What a bunch of crap!
This work is complete crap.
(BrE) Her latest film is a load of crap.
(NAmE) Her latest movie is a bunch of crap.
I'm not going to take this crap any more.
to have a crap
a crap band
The concert was crap.
The team played crap yesterday.
to shoot craps (= play this game)
a crap game
a crappy novel
A girl was killed yesterday in a crash involving a stolen car.
a car/plane crash
The tree fell with a great crash.
The first distant crash of thunder shook the air.
the 1987 stock market crash
I was terrified that the plane would crash.
A truck went out of control and crashed into the back of a bus.
He crashed his car into a wall.
A brick crashed through the window.
With a sweep of his hand he sent the glasses crashing to the floor.
The door crashed open.
She stormed out of the room and crashed the door shut behind her.
Thunder crashed overhead.
Share prices crashed to an all-time low yesterday.
The company crashed with debts of £50 million.
Files can be lost if the system suddenly crashes.
The team crashed to their worst defeat this season.
I was so tired I crashed out on the sofa.
I've come to crash on your floor for a couple of nights.
They crashed out of the World Cup after a 2–1 defeat to Brazil.
a crash course in computer programming
a crash diet
to make a crash landing
He now owns a house in Spain and a crash pad in London, which he uses when he visits his English relatives.
the crass questions all disabled people get asked
an act of crass (= great) stupidity
a crate of bananas
a beer crate
They drank two crates of beer.
a meteorite crater
She has always craved excitement.
I must crave your pardon.
a craving for chocolate
a desperate craving to be loved
Our baby is just starting to crawl.
A man was crawling away from the burning wreckage.
There's a spider crawling up your leg.
The traffic was crawling along.
The weeks crawled by.
She's always crawling to the boss.
The traffic slowed to a crawl.
a swimmer doing the crawl
the latest fitness craze to sweep the country
crazed with fear/grief/jealousy
a crazed killer roaming the streets
Are you crazy? We could get killed doing that.
She must be crazy to lend him money.
He drove like an idiot, passing in the craziest places.
What a crazy idea!
I know it sounds crazy but it just might work.
That noise is driving me crazy.
Marie says he went crazy, and smashed the room up.
Rick is crazy about football.
He's football-crazy.
I'm not crazy about Chinese food (= I don't like it very much).
The crowd went crazy when the band came on stage.
You're so beautiful you're driving me crazy.
I've been crazy about him since the first time I saw him.
She's crazy—she ought to be locked up.
We worked like crazy to get it done on time.
The main purpose of industry is to create wealth.
The government plans to create more jobs for young people.
Create a new directory and put all your files into it.
The company is trying to create a young energetic image.
The announcement only succeeded in creating confusion.
They've painted it red to create a feeling of warmth.
The government has created eight new peers.
He was created a baronet in 1715.
She heard a floorboard creak upstairs.
a creaking bed/gate/stair
The table creaked and groaned under the weight.
The door creaked open.
the creak/creaking of the door
Distant creaks and groans echoed eerily along the dark corridors.
a creaky old chair
the country's creaky legal machinery
strawberries and cream
Would you like milk or cream in your coffee?
fresh/whipped cream
(BrE) cream cakes (= containing cream)
(BrE) double/single cream (= thick/thin cream)
a chocolate/peppermint cream
hand/moisturizing cream
antiseptic cream
a cream cleaner
the cream of New York society
the cream of the crop of this season's movies
a cream linen suit
Cream the butter and sugar together.
We got creamed in the first round.
The best students were creamed off by the grammar schools.
non-dairy creamer
a creamy sauce/soup
creamy skin
She smoothed the creases out of her skirt.
a shirt made of crease-resistant material
trousers with a sharp crease in the legs
creases around the eyes
Pack your suit carefully so that you don't crease it.
A frown creased her forehead.
Her face creased into a smile.
I can't wear this blouse. It's creased.
Ed creased up laughing.
Her jokes really creased me up.
the process of database creation
wealth creation
He had been with the company since its creation in 1989.
a literary creation
The cake was a delicious creation of sponge, cream and fruit.
a course on creative writing (= writing stories, plays and poems)
the creative and performing arts
creative thinking (= thinking about problems in a new way or thinking of new ideas)
the company's creative team
the creative process
She's very creative—she writes poetry and paints.
Do you have any ideas? You're the creative one.
Creativity and originality are more important than technical skill.
The exhibition features the paintings of local creatives.
We need to produce better creative if we want to attract big clients.
Walt Disney, the creator of Mickey Mouse
The dormouse is a shy, nocturnal creature.
respect for all living creatures
strange creatures from outer space
You pathetic creature!
She was an exotic creature with long red hair and brilliant green eyes.
He always goes to bed at ten—he's a creature of habit (= he likes to do the same things at the same time every day).
Historical evidence lends credence to his theory.
They could give no credence to the findings of the survey.
Alternative medicine has been gaining credence (= becoming more widely accepted) recently.
He has all the credentials for the job.
She will first have to establish her leadership credentials.
to gain/lack/lose credibility
The prosecution did its best to undermine the credibility of the witness.
Newspapers were talking of a credibility gap between what he said and what he did.
a credible explanation/witness
It is just not credible that she would cheat.
Community service is seen as the only credible alternative to imprisonment.
We can credibly describe the band's latest album as their best yet.
to get/refuse credit
We bought the dishwasher on credit.
to offer interest-free credit (= allow sb to pay later, without any extra charge)
a credit agreement
credit facilities/terms
Your credit limit is now £2 000.
He's a bad credit risk (= he is unlikely to pay the money later).
The bank refused further credit to the company.
Her credit isn't good anywhere now.
a credit of £50
You'll be paid by direct credit into your bank account.
a tax credit
He's a player who rarely seems to get the credit he deserves.
I can't take all the credit for the show's success—it was a team effort.
We did all the work and she gets all the credit!
Credit will be given in the exam for good spelling and grammar.
At least give him credit for trying (= praise him because he tried, even if he did not succeed).
She is a credit to the school.
She was given a programme credit for her work on the costumes for the play.
The credits (= the list of all the people involved) seemed to last almost as long as the film!
My math class is worth three credits.
Your honesty does you great credit.
He's only 30, and he already has four novels to his credit.
To his credit, Jack never told anyone exactly what had happened.
Your account has been credited with $50 000.
$50 000 has been credited to your account.
All the contributors are credited on the title page.
The company is credited with inventing the industrial robot.
The invention of the industrial robot is credited to the company.
I credited you with a little more sense.
The cheetah is generally credited as the world's fastest animal.
He's been promoted—would you credit it?
All major credit cards are accepted at our hotels.
It was a very creditable result for the team.
There was nothing very creditable in what he did.
The plot of the novel stretches credulity to the limit (= it is almost impossible to believe).
people of all races, colours and creeds
discrimination on the basis of race, colour or creed
What is his political creed?
I was really up the creek without my car.
I crept up the stairs, trying not to wake my parents.
Her arms crept around his neck.
A slight feeling of suspicion crept over me.
As she became more tired, errors began to creep into her work.
He said the empty streets creeped him out.
House prices are creeping up again.
Don't creep up on me like that!
Tiredness can easily creep up on you while you're driving.
He's a nasty little creep!
The World Bank has been accused of mission creep when seeking to address these concerns.
The inclusion of health data on identity cards was condemned as function creep.
a creepy ghost story
It's kind of creepy down in the cellar!
What a creepy coincidence.
creeping inflation
This school takes only the crème de la crème.
Creole cookery
Creolized forms of Latin were spoken in various parts of Europe.
a black crêpe dress
a crêpe bandage
crêpe-soled shoes
Voices rose in a crescendo and drowned him out.
(figurative) The advertising campaign reached a crescendo just before Christmas.
a crescent moon
I live at 7 Park Crescent.
surfers riding the crest of the wave
the university crest
The band is riding the crest of its last tour.
He slowed the pace as they crested the ridge.
(figurative) The level of debt crested at a massive $290 billion in 2009.
crested notepaper
crested newts
Why did you do that, you cretin?
None of the passengers and crew were injured.
crew members
the officers and crew
a film/camera crew
an ambulance crew
The people she invited were a pretty motley crew (= a strange mix of types of people).
a member of the Cambridge crew
I'm thinking of going out for crew this semester (= joining the rowing team).
Normally the boat is crewed by five people.
I crewed for him on his yacht last summer.
crew-cut teenagers
a crib sheet
I suffered a cricked neck during a game of tennis.
a cricket match/team/club/ball
the chirping of crickets
cricketing nations
a cricketing jersey
It's all right. Don't cry.
I just couldn't stop crying.
The baby was crying for (= because it wanted) its mother.
There's nothing to cry about.
He felt like crying with rage.
'Waaa!' she cried.
I found him crying his eyes out (= crying very much).
That night she cried herself to sleep.
'I don't want you to go,' she cried/wailed/sobbed.
She ran to the window and cried for help.
'You're safe!' Tom cried in delight.
Seagulls followed the boat, crying loudly.
As the saying goes— it's no use crying over spilt milk.
For crying out loud! Why did you have to do that?
She said she was coming to the party, but cried off at the last moment.
She tried to stop herself from crying out.
to cry out in fear/alarm/pain
She cried out his name.
'Help!' he cried out.
The company is crying out for fresh new talent.
to give a cry of anguish/despair/relief/surprise/terror, etc.
With a cry of 'Stop thief!' he ran after the boy.
Her answer was greeted with cries of outrage.
the cry of gulls circling overhead
I felt a lot better after a good long cry.
Her suicide attempt was really a cry for help.
a battle cry
The Leeds supporters were in full cry.
Crikey, is that the time?
an increase in violent crime
the fight against crime
Stores spend more and more on crime prevention every year.
petty/serious crime
the connection between drugs and organized crime
He turned to crime when he dropped out of school.
The crime rate is rising.
crime fiction/novels (= stories about crime)
crime figures/statistics
She's a crime writer (= she writes stories about crime).
to commit a crime (= do sth illegal)
The massacre was a crime against humanity.
It's a crime to waste so much money.
criminal offences/behaviour
criminal damage (= the crime of damaging sb's property deliberately)
criminal negligence (= the illegal act of sb failing to do sth that they should do, with the result that sb else is harmed)
criminal law
the criminal justice system
a criminal lawyer
to bring criminal charges against sb
This is a criminal waste of resources.
Society does not know how to deal with hardened criminals (= people who regularly commit crimes and are not sorry for what they do).
(especially NAmE) a career criminal
The use of opium was not criminalized until fairly recently.
criminally insane
She went crimson (= her face became very red because she was embarrassed).
a child cringing in terror
I cringe when I think of the poems I wrote then.
It was a cringeworthy performance from start to finish.
He smiled, his eyes crinkling.
Her face crinkled up in a smile.
The binding had faded and the pages were crinkled.
crinkly silver foil
He was crippled by polio as a child.
to be crippled with arthritis
The pilot tried to land his crippled plane.
a crippling disease
crippling debts
(figurative) He's an emotional cripple (= he cannot express his feelings).
a political/financial crisis
the government's latest economic crisis
The business is still in crisis but it has survived the worst of the recession.
The Labour Party was facing an identity crisis.
an expert in crisis management
We provide help to families in crisis situations.
In times of crisis I know which friends I can turn to.
The party was suffering a crisis of confidence among its supporters (= they did not trust it any longer).
Their marriage has reached crisis point.
The fever has passed its crisis.
Bake until the pastry is golden and crisp.
a crisp apple/lettuce
a crisp new $5 bill
a crisp white shirt
a crisp winter morning
The air was crisp and clear and the sky was blue.
deep, crisp snow
The recording sounds very crisp, considering its age.
Her answer was crisp, and she gave no details.
crisply fried potatoes
'Take a seat,' she said crisply.
The salad had lost its crispness.
apple crisp
crispy batter
a criss-cross pattern
a criss-cross of streets
The city is criss-crossed with canals.
a critical comment/report
The supervisor is always very critical.
Tom's parents were highly critical of the school.
a critical factor in the election campaign
Reducing levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is of critical importance.
Your decision is critical to our future.
Experience is essential for this job.
The police play a vital role in our society.
It was vital to show that he was not afraid.
It is crucial that we get this right.
She has played a decisive role in the peace negotiations.
Cars have become an indispensable part of our lives.
The first 24 hours after the operation are the most critical.
a critical moment in our country's history
One of the victims of the fire remains in a critical condition.
Students are encouraged to develop critical thinking instead of accepting opinions without questioning them.
the film director's greatest critical success
In her day she never received the critical acclaim (= praise from the critics) she deserved.
She spoke critically of her father.
He is critically ill in intensive care.
I looked at myself critically in the mirror.
The main criterion is value for money.
What criteria are used for assessing a student's ability?
a music/theatre/literary, etc. critic
The critics loved the movie.
She is one of the ruling party's most outspoken critics.
a critic of private health care
The company needs one million customers to reach critical mass and start making a profit.
TV via Internet could only be developed once a critical mass of households had broadband access.
Critical thinking skills enable students to evaluate information.
All you ever do is criticize!
The decision was criticized by environmental groups.
The government has been criticized for not taking the problem seriously.
We were taught how to criticize poems.
The plan has attracted criticism from consumer groups.
People in public life must always be open to criticism (= willing to accept being criticized).
Ben is very sensitive, he just can't take criticism.
to offer sb constructive criticism (= that is meant to be helpful)
I didn't mean it as a criticism.
criticisms levelled at (= aimed at) journalists
There was widespread criticism of the government's handling of the disaster.
My only criticism of the house is that it is on a main road.
literary criticism
a feminist critique of Freud's theories
Her job involves critiquing designs by fashion students.
wild critters
I had a sore throat and could only croak.
He managed to croak a greeting.
'I'm fine,' she croaked.
a crocheted shawl
crocodile shoes
Use the crocodile clips to attach the cables to the battery.
He was playing cards with his cronies.
That salesman is a real crook.
a crooked nose/smile
a village of crooked streets
Your glasses are on crooked.
a crooked businessman/deal
It's not you I'm crooked on, it's him.
She gently crooned a lullaby.
Sugar is an important crop on the island.
crop rotation/production/yield
The crops are regularly sprayed with pesticides.
a fall in this year's coffee crop
We are looking forward to a bumper crop (= a very large one).
the current crop of trainees
She is really the cream of the crop (= the best in her group).
a crop of disasters/injuries
a riding crop
He had a thick crop of black curly hair.
closely cropped hair
The potatoes cropped well this year.
The river valley is intensively cropped.
His name just cropped up in conversation.
I'll be late—something's cropped up at home.
I've put a cross on the map to show where the hotel is.
Put a tick if the answer is correct and a cross if it's wrong.
Sign your name on the form where I've put a cross.
Those who could not write signed with a cross.
She wore a small gold cross on a chain around her neck.
The play was a cross between a farce and a tragedy.
A mule is a cross between a horse and a donkey.
I waved and she crossed over (= crossed the road towards me).
We crossed from Dover to Calais.
to cross a/the road
to cross the sea/mountains
to cross France by train
The bridge crosses the River Dee.
A look of annoyance crossed her face.
They crossed the finishing line together (= in a race).
He crossed over the road and joined me.
The roads cross just outside the town.
The straps cross over at the back and are tied at the waist.
Our letters must have crossed in the mail (= each was sent before the other was received).
We seem to have a crossed line (= a telephone call that interrupts another call because of a wrong connection).
to cross your arms/legs (= place one arm or leg over the other)
She sat with her legs crossed.
a flag with a design of two crossed keys
She's really nice until you cross her.
(literary) He had been crossed in love (= the person he loved was not faithful to him).
A mule is the product of a horse crossed with a donkey.
(figurative) He behaved like an army officer crossed with a professor.
to cross your t's (= the letters in writing)
(BrE) to cross a cheque (= to draw two lines across it so that it can only be paid through a bank account)
I'm crossing my fingers that my proposal will be accepted.
Keep your fingers crossed!
I saw him do it—cross my heart.
It never crossed my mind that she might lose (= I was sure that she would win).
I hope I never cross her path again.
Our paths were to cross again many years later.
We can cross his name off; he's not coming.
a cult movie that has crossed over to mass appeal
I was cross with him for being late.
Please don't get cross. Let me explain.
'Well what did you expect?' she said crossly.
I ran a cross post from the site.
One of your cross-posts sparked a debate.
I think we're talking at cross purposes; that's not what I meant at all.
a diagram representing a cross section of the human eye
the human eye in cross section
a representative cross section of society
cross-fertilize
crossfire
members who sit on the cross benches
a cross-border raid by guerrillas
cross-bred sheep
Cross-check your answers with a calculator.
Baggage should be cross-checked against the names of individual passengers.
cross-country running
We rode cross-country.
cross-country train journeys
The report contains the findings of a cross-country comparison of crime statistics.
The witness was cross-examined for over two hours.
He broke down under cross-examination (= while he was being cross-examined) and admitted his part in the assault.
The study of psychology has recently been widely cross-fertilized by new discoveries in genetics.
the cross-legged figure of the Hindu god
You can cross-post items from/to your own blog.
The entry for 'polygraph' is cross-referred to the entry for 'lie detector'.
The doctor was killed in crossfire as he went to help the wounded.
(figurative) When two industrial giants clash, small companies can get caught in the crossfire (= become involved and suffer as a result).
The child was killed when a car failed to stop at the crossing.
The next crossing point is a long way downstream.
He was arrested by guards at the border crossing.
a three-hour ferry crossing
a rough crossing from Dover to Calais
the first Atlantic crossing
attempted crossings of the border
The album was an exciting jazz-pop crossover.
At the next crossroads, turn right.
(figurative) He has reached a career crossroads (= he must decide which way to go next in his career).
a crosstown bus
Cut the fabric crosswise.
to do a/the crossword
I've finished the crossword apart from 3 across and 10 down.
There's a hole in the crotch.
He was tired and crotchety.
He crouched down beside her.
Doyle crouched behind a hedge.
She sat crouched in a corner.
He crouched over the papers on his desk.
She dropped to a crouch.
She gave a little crow of triumph.
He won't stop crowing about his victory.
'I've won, I've won!' she crowed.
He crowed that they had sold out in one day.
He pushed his way through the crowd.
A small crowd had gathered outside the church.
Police had to break up the crowd.
Crowds of people poured into the street.
I want to get there early to avoid the crowds.
The match attracted a capacity crowd of 80 000.
The crowd cheered the winning hit.
crowd control
crowd trouble
A whole crowd of us (= a lot of us) are going to the ball.
He left the hotel surrounded by crowds of journalists.
Bob introduced her to some of the usual crowd (= people who often meet each other).
the bright young theatrical crowd
We all like to think we stand out from the crowd (= are different from and better than other people).
He prefers to be one of the crowd.
She's quite happy to follow the crowd.
Thousands of people crowded the narrow streets.
Memories crowded his mind.
We all crowded around the stove to keep warm.
Photographers were crowding around outside.
Too many uncomfortable thoughts were crowding in on her.
Memories came crowding into her mind.
We all crowded into her office to sing 'Happy Birthday'.
Guests were crowded into the few remaining rooms.
crowded streets
a crowded bar
In the spring the place is crowded with skiers.
London was very crowded.
a room crowded with books
We have a very crowded schedule.
They raised the money for the film through crowdfunding.
The newspaper uses crowdsourcing to gather information for its website.
land owned by the Crown
a Minister of the Crown
Who's appearing for the Crown (= bringing a criminal charge against sb on behalf of the state) in this case?
She refused the crown (= refused to become queen).
his claim to the French crown
She is determined to retain her Wimbledon crown.
the crown of a hill
Czech crowns
Queen Elizabeth was crowned in 1953.
The prince was soon to be crowned King of England.
His head was crowned with a mop of brown curls.
The award of the Nobel Prize has crowned a glorious career in physics.
Their efforts were finally crowned with success.
I've had one of my teeth crowned.
It was cold and raining, and, to crown it all, we had to walk home.
The cathedral is the crowning glory of the city.
His 'Beethoven' sculpture is seen as the crowning achievement of his career.
Now we come to the crux of the matter.
a crucial factor/issue/decision
topics of crucial importance
The next few weeks are going to be crucial.
Winning this contract is crucial to the success of the company.
Parents play a crucial role in preparing their child for school.
He wasn't there at the crucial moment (= when he was needed most).
crucially important
the Crucifixion (= of Jesus)
The prime minister was crucified in the press for his handling of the affair.
We got really cruddy service in that restaurant last time.
In crude terms, the causes of mental illness seem to be of three main kinds.
a crude drawing of a face
crude jokes/language
crude oil/metal
a crudely drawn ship
To put it crudely, the poor are going without food so that the rich can drive cars.
50 000 barrels of crude
Despite the crudity of their methods and equipment, the experiment was a considerable success.
the novel's structural crudities
The crudity of her language shocked him.
a cruel dictator
I can't stand people who are cruel to animals.
Her eyes were cruel and hard.
Sometimes you have to be cruel to be kind (= make sb suffer because it will be good for them later).
a cruel punishment/joke
Her father's death was a cruel blow.
The dog had been cruelly treated.
I was cruelly deceived.
cruelty to animals
The deliberate cruelty of his words cut her like a knife.
the cruelties of life
I'd love to go on a round-the-world cruise.
a luxury cruise ship
They cruised down the Nile.
We spent two weeks cruising the Bahamas.
a light aircraft cruising at 4 000 feet
a cruising speed of 50 miles an hour
She cruised around the block looking for a parking space.
Taxis cruised the streets, looking for fares.
The home team cruised to victory.
She stood up and brushed the crumbs from her sweater.
a few crumbs of useful information
The government's only crumb of comfort is that their opponents are as confused as they are.
Rice flour makes the cake less likely to crumble.
Crumble the cheese over the salad.
buildings crumbling into dust
crumbling stonework
The cliff is gradually crumbling away.
a crumbling business/relationship
All his hopes began to crumble away.
The empire finally crumbled into dust.
apple crumble and custard
crumbly soil/cheese
Oh crumbs! Is that the time?
Most of his songs are pretty crummy.
She crumpled the letter up into a ball and threw it on the fire.
This material crumples very easily.
He crumpled up in agony.
crumpled clothes/papers
A crumpled figure lay motionless in the doorway.
the crunch of feet on snow
The car drew up with a crunch of gravel.
The crunch came when she returned from America.
He always says he'll help but when it comes to the crunch (= when it is time for action) he does nothing.
The crunch is that we can't afford to go abroad this year.
the budget/energy/housing crunch
She crunched her apple noisily.
The snow crunched under our feet.
I crunched across the gravel to the front door.
He crunched up the empty pack and threw it out of the window.
Sunday's crunch game with Leeds
a crunchy salad
to lead a crusade against crime
a moral crusade
moral crusaders
The car was completely crushed under the truck.
They crush the olives with a heavy wooden press.
Several people were crushed to death in the accident.
Over twenty prisoners were crushed into a small dark cell.
Add two cloves of crushed garlic.
The army was sent in to crush the rebellion.
She felt completely crushed by the teacher's criticism.
a big crush in the theatre bar
I couldn't find a way through the crush.
a schoolgirl crush
I had a huge crush on her.
a garlic crusher
a crushing defeat in the election
The shipyard has been dealt another crushing blow with the failure to win this contract.
sandwiches with the crusts cut off
Bake until the crust is golden.
a thin crust of ice
the earth's crust
fresh crusty bread
a crusty old man
After the accident I spent six months on crutches.
Don't be such a crybaby.
the crying of terrified children
a cryogenic storage system
a cryptic message/remark/smile
a cryptic crossword clue
'Yes and no,' she replied cryptically.
a crypto-communist
ice/salt crystals
a pair of crystal earrings
a crystal chandelier/vase
Without a crystal ball, it's impossible to say where we'll be next year.
I want to make my meaning crystal clear.
crystalline structure/rocks
water of crystalline purity
Our ideas began to crystallize into a definite plan.
The final chapter crystallizes all the main issues.
The salt crystallizes as the water evaporates.
an 18ct gold ring
50 cts
30 Willow Ct
a volume of 2 cu. m (= 2 cubic metres)
a lioness guarding her cubs
to join the Cubs
My office is a cubbyhole in the basement.
Cut the meat into cubes.
The cube of 5 (53) is 125 (5×5×5).
10 cubed is 1 000.
The cube root of 64 (∛64) is 4.
cubic centimetres/inches/metres
the cubic capacity of a car's engine
a cubic figure
a shower cubicle
(BrE) a changing cubicle (= for example at a public swimming pool)
(especially NAmE) an office cubicle
The exhibition includes works by the Cubists.
cubist paintings
cows chewing the cud
A couple of teenagers were kissing and cuddling on the doorstep.
The little boy cuddled the teddy bear close.
She cuddled up against him.
We cuddled up together under the blanket.
to give sb a cuddle
a cuddly rabbit
Jon's arrival was a cue for more champagne.
I think that's my cue to explain why I'm here.
She stood in the wings and waited for her cue to go on.
Investors are taking their cue from the big banks and selling dollars.
Can you cue me when you want me to begin speaking?
a collar and cuffs of white lace
to give sb a friendly cuff
I'm just speaking off the cuff here—I haven't seen the results yet.
an off-the-cuff remark
She cuffed him lightly around his head.
a pair of gold cufflinks
Italian cuisine
The hotel restaurant is noted for its excellent cuisine.
a gun battle which culminated in the death of two police officers
Months of hard work culminated in success.
Their summer tour will culminate at a spectacular concert in London.
culinary skills
Savour the culinary delights of Mexico.
an exhibition of paintings culled from regional art galleries
the annual seal cull
The reforms marked the successful culmination of a long campaign.
a pair of culottes
The police quickly identified the real culprits.
The main culprit in the current crisis seems to be modern farming techniques.
the cult of physical fitness
An extraordinary personality cult had been created around the leader.
Their son ran away from home and joined a cult.
the Chinese cult of ancestor worship
a cult movie/book
The singer has become a cult figure in America.
The cartoon has achieved cult status.
The TV series has a cult following among young people.
The land around here has never been cultivated.
The people cultivate mainly rice and beans.
He purposely tried to cultivate good relations with the press.
It helps if you go out of your way to cultivate the local people.
She cultivated an air of sophistication.
cultivated fields
cultivated mushrooms
fertile land that is under cultivation (= being cultivated )
rice/wheat, etc. cultivation
the cultivation of a good relationship with local firms
cultural differences between the two communities
economic, social and cultural factors
a cultural event
Europe's cultural heritage
The orchestra is very important for the cultural life of the city.
European/Islamic/African/American, etc. culture
working-class culture
The children are taught to respect different cultures.
the effect of technology on traditional cultures
Venice is a beautiful city full of culture and history.
popular culture (= that is enjoyed by a lot of people)
the Minister for Culture
The political cultures of the United States and Europe are very different.
A culture of failure exists in some schools.
company culture
We are living in a consumer culture.
the culture of silkworms (= for silk)
a culture of cells from the tumour
Yogurt is made from active cultures.
to do/take a throat culture
a bedroom-cum-study
He graduated cum laude.
cumbersome machinery
cumbersome legal procedures
The organization changed its cumbersome title to something easier to remember.
cumin seeds
the cumulative effect of human activity on the world environment
the monthly sales figures and the cumulative total for the past six months
a cunning liar
He was as cunning as a fox.
It was a cunning piece of detective work.
The microphone was cunningly concealed in the bookcase.
It took energy and cunning just to survive.
She used low cunning (= dishonest behaviour) to get what she wanted.
You stupid cunt!
a teacup
a coffee cup
a cup and saucer
a paper cup
She drank the whole cup.
Would you like a cup of tea?
two cups of flour and half a cup of butter
an egg cup
She's won several cups for skating.
He lifted the cup for the fifth time this year (= it was the fifth time he had won).
the World Cup
a C cup
He gets very maudlin when he's in his cups.
An evening at the opera isn't everyone's cup of tea.
He's nice enough but not really my cup of tea.
She held the bird gently in cupped hands.
He cupped her face in his hands and kissed her.
cup final tickets
the FA Cup Final
kitchen cupboards
3 cupfuls of water
Do you fancy a cuppa?
Most skin cancers are curable if treated early.
A UK rock band are curating the BBC 's digital music station for a week.
the curative properties of herbs
He needs to learn to curb his temper.
A range of policies have been introduced aimed at curbing inflation.
curbs on government spending
The bus mounted the curb (= went onto the sidewalk/ pavement ) and hit a tree.
Will you be able to cure him, Doctor?
TB is a serious illness, but it can be cured.
I finally managed to cure the rattling noise in my car.
the search for a cure for cancer
There is no known cure but the illness can be treated.
Doctors cannot effect a cure if the disease has spread too far.
The cure took six weeks.
a cure for poverty
current prices
a budget for the current year
your current employer
words that are no longer current
He swam to the shore against a strong current.
Birds use warm air currents to help their flight.
a 15 amp electrical current
Ministers are worried by this current of anti-government feeling.
The army imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew.
You must get home before curfew.
I have a 10 o'clock curfew.
Children show curiosity about everything.
a certain curiosity to see what would happen next
The letter wasn't addressed to me but I opened it out of curiosity.
His answer did not satisfy my curiosity at all.
Sophie's curiosity was aroused by the mysterious phone call.
intellectual curiosity
'Why do you ask?' 'Oh, just idle curiosity (= no particular reason).'
The museum is full of historical curiosities.
They were very curious about the people who lived upstairs.
I was curious to find out what she had said.
Everyone was curious as to why Mark was leaving.
He is such a curious boy, always asking questions.
There was a curious mixture of people in the audience.
It was a curious feeling, as though we were floating on air.
It was curious that she didn't tell anyone.
'Are you really an artist?' Sara asked curiously.
His clothes were curiously old-fashioned.
Curiously enough, a year later exactly the same thing happened again.
Funnily enough, I said the same thing myself only yesterday.
His hair curls naturally.
The cat curled into a ball and went to sleep.
She curled her legs up under her.
The smoke curled steadily upwards.
He turned and curled the ball around the goalkeeper.
The paper started to shrivel and curl up in the heat.
Her hair was a mass of curls.
The baby had dark eyes and dark curls.
His hair had a natural curl.
a curl of smoke
Decorate the cake with curls of chocolate.
a contemptuous curl of the lip (= an expression showing disapproval)
short curly hair
a dog with a curly tail
a currant bun
blackcurrants
currant bushes
trading in foreign currencies
a single European currency
You'll need some cash in local currency but you can also use your credit card.
The term 'post-industrial' now has wide currency.
The qualification has gained currency all over the world.
The hourly charge is currently £35.
Currently, over 500 students are enrolled on the course.
All the options are currently available.
This matter is currently being discussed.
the school curriculum
(BrE) Spanish is on the curriculum.
(NAmE) Spanish is in the curriculum.
Applications with a full curriculum vitae and two references should reach the Principal by June 12th.
curried chicken/beef/eggs, etc.
a chicken curry
Would you like some more curry?
He muttered a curse at the other driver.
The family thought that they were under a curse.
the curse of drug addiction
Noise is a curse of modern city life.
He hit his head as he stood up and cursed loudly.
She cursed her bad luck.
He cursed himself for his stupidity.
Legend has it that the whole village had been cursed by a witch.
The necklace was cursed.
The whole family seemed cursed.
a cursory glance/examination/inspection
a curt reply
a curt nod
His tone was curt and unfriendly.
Spending on books has been severely curtailed.
The lecture was curtailed by the fire alarm going off.
the curtailment of civil liberties
to draw/pull/close the curtains (= to pull them across the window so they cover it)
to draw/draw back/pull back the curtains (= to open them, so that the window is no longer covered)
It was ten in the morning but the curtains were still drawn (= closed).
a pair of curtains
a shower curtain
The audience was waiting for the curtain to rise (= for the play to begin).
There was tremendous applause when the curtain came down (= the play ended).
We left just before the final curtain.
(figurative) The curtain has fallen on her long and distinguished career (= her career has ended).
(figurative) It's time to face the final curtain (= the end; death).
a curtain of rain/smoke
She pushed back the curtain of brown hair from her eyes.
She curtsied to the Queen.
the curvature of the earth
curvature of the spine
the delicate curve of her ear
a pattern of straight lines and curves
(especially NAmE) a curve in the road
(especially NAmE) The driver lost control on a curve and the vehicle hit a tree.
to plot a curve on a graph
(specialist) the unemployment-income curve (= a line on a graph showing the relationship between the number of unemployed people and national income)
(figurative) One of the journalists threw the senator a curve (= surprised him by asking a difficult question).
The road curved around the bay.
The ball curved through the air.
His lips curved in a smile.
A smile curved his lips.
a curved path/roof/blade
a curvy body
curvy lines
a cushy job
matching curtains and cushions
a floor cushion (= a large cushion that you put on the floor to sit on)
a pile of scatter cushions (= small cushions, often in bright colours, that you put on chairs, etc.)
(figurative) a cushion of moss on a rock
A hovercraft rides on a cushion of air.
His savings were a comfortable cushion against financial problems.
The team built up a safe cushion of two goals in the first half.
My fall was cushioned by the deep snow.
The south of the country has been cushioned from the worst effects of the recession.
He broke the news of my brother's death to me, making no effort to cushion the blow (= make the news less shocking).
the cusp of a leaf
I was born on the cusp between Virgo and Libra.
(figurative) He was on the cusp between small acting roles and moderate fame.
My dad used to come home drunk, shouting and cussing.
He's an awkward cuss.
cuss words
apple pie and custard
The judge gave him a custodial sentence (= sent him to prison).
The mother is usually the custodial parent after a divorce.
the museum's custodians
a self-appointed custodian of public morals
Who will have custody of the children?
The divorce court awarded custody to the child's mother.
The parents were locked in a bitter battle for custody.
The bank provides safe custody for valuables.
The castle is now in the custody of the state.
After the riot, 32 people were taken into police custody.
(BrE) He was remanded in custody, charged with the murder of a policeman.
an old/ancient custom
the custom of giving presents at Christmas
It's a local custom.
It is the custom in that country for women to marry young.
It was her custom to rise early.
As was his custom, he knocked three times.
Thank you for your custom. Please call again.
We've lost a lot of custom since prices went up.
a custom motorcycle
Is it customary to tip hairdressers in this country?
She arranged everything with her customary efficiency.
one of the shop's best/biggest customers
They know me—I'm a regular customer.
the customer service department
The firm has excellent customer relations.
an awkward customer
We need to appeal to a wider customer base.
customer-facing operations such as call centres
customer-facing software applications
You can customize the software in several ways.
a customized car
French Customs have arrested two men.
a customs officer
to go through customs and passport control
to pay customs on sth
customs duty/duties
income tax
tax cuts
The company has to pay customs duties on all imports.
A general tariff was imposed on foreign imports.
Business rates are very high in the city centre.
She cut her finger on a piece of glass.
He cut himself (= his face) shaving.
She had fallen and cut her head open.
You need a powerful saw to cut through metal.
(figurative) The canoe cut through the water.
He cut four thick slices from the loaf.
a bunch of cut flowers
I cut them all a piece of birthday cake.
I cut a piece of birthday cake for them all.
The climbers cut steps in the ice.
Workmen cut a hole in the pipe.
Don't cut the string, untie the knots.
He cut the loaf into thick slices.
The bus was cut in two by the train.
Now cut the tomatoes in half.
to cut your hair/nails
to cut the grass/lawn/hedge
He's had his hair cut really short.
The injured driver had to be cut from the wreckage.
Two survivors were cut free after being trapped for twenty minutes.
The swimsuit was cut high in the leg.
This knife won't cut.
Sandstone cuts easily.
to cut prices/taxes/spending/production
Buyers will bargain hard to cut the cost of the house they want.
His salary has been cut by ten per cent.
Could you cut your essay from 5 000 to 3 000 words?
The President has promised to cut taxes significantly.
Could you cut your essay from 5 000 to 3 000 words?
The workforce has been slashed by half.
We had to cut back production.
The IMF has scaled back its growth forecasts for the next decade.
This scene was cut from the final version of the movie.
You can cut and paste between different programs.
Cut the chatter and get on with your work!
She has cut all ties with her family.
The director shouted 'Cut!'
The scene cuts from the bedroom to the street.
He's always cutting class.
His cruel remarks cut her deeply.
Let's cut for dealer.
The line cuts the circle at two points.
When did she cut her first tooth?
The Beatles cut their first disc in 1962.
Opinion on this issue cuts across traditional political boundaries.
I usually cut across the park on my way home.
They cut away all the dead branches from the tree.
If we don't sell more we'll have to cut back production.
to cut back on spending
to cut back a rose bush
He was cut down by an assassin's bullet.
to cut down a tree
We need to cut the article down to 1 000 words.
The doctor told him to cut down on his drinking.
I won't have a cigarette, thanks—I'm trying to cut down (= smoke fewer).
Emergency generators cut in.
She kept cutting in on our conversation.
'Forget it!' she cut in.
We were cut off in the middle of our conversation.
He cut his son off without a penny.
My explanation was cut off by loud protests.
Our water supply has been cut off.
They were cut off for not paying their phone bill.
He had his finger cut off in an accident at work.
(figurative) The winner cut ten seconds off (= ran the distance ten seconds faster than) the world record.
They cut off the enemy's retreat.
The new factory cuts off our view of the hills.
The army was cut off from its base.
She feels very cut off living in the country.
He cut himself off from all human contact.
Don't cut your parents out of your lives.
Furious, his mother cut him out of her will (= refused to let him receive any of her property after she died).
She cut the dress out of some old material.
(figurative) He's cut out a niche for himself (= found a suitable job) in journalism.
I would cut out the bit about working as a waitress.
I'm sick of you two arguing—just cut it out!
Tall trees cut out the sunlight.
I cut this article out of the newspaper.
I've been advised to cut sugar out of my diet.
They used a machete to cut through the bush.
The prisoners cut their way through the barbed wire.
He was very badly cut up in the fight.
She was pretty cut up about them leaving.
He cut up the meat on his plate.
cuts and bruises on the face
Blood poured from the deep cut on his arm.
Using sharp scissors, make a small cut in the material.
price/tax/job cuts
They had to take a 20% cut in pay.
They announced cuts in public spending.
Your hair could do with a cut (= it is too long).
a cut and blow-dry
the elegant cut of her dress
They were rewarded with a cut of 5% from the profits.
The director objected to the cuts ordered by the censor.
She made some cuts before handing over the finished novel.
a lean cut of pork
cheap cuts of stewing lamb
the cut and thrust of political debate
I had to explain to the applicants why they didn't make the cut.
Woods needed a 69 to make the cut.
When a book is made into a movie not every scene will make the cut.
He cut quite a dash in his uniform.
He cut a striking figure in his white dinner jacket.
The inquiry is by no means cut and dried.
a cut-glass vase
If we don't leave till after lunch we'll be cutting it very fine.
His excuses cut no ice with me.
She saw me, recognized me and cut me dead.
Hey, cut him some slack! He's doing his best!
a cut-down version of the program
Is there a cut-off point between childhood and adulthood?
The government announced a cut-off in overseas aid.
wearing frayed cut-offs
cut-off jeans
a cardboard cut-out
A cut-out stops the kettle boiling dry.
cut-price goods/fares
a cut-price store/supermarket
the cut-throat world of politics
a cutaway picture of the inside of a nuclear reactor
There was a cutaway to Jackson's guest at the side of the stage.
cutbacks in public spending
staff cutbacks
a cute little baby
(BrE) an unbearably cute picture of two kittens (= it seems sentimental )
Check out those cute guys over there!
She had a really cute idea.
Don't get cute with me!
to smile cutely
He's a real cutie.
nut cutlets
There's a really good cutscene at the end of the game, where you find out that your character was actually working for the villain.
a pastry cutter
a pair of wire cutters
newspaper/press cuttings
a cutting remark
working at the cutting edge of computer technology
We're relying on him to give the team a cutting edge.
cutting-edge technology/research/science/design
cutting-edge technology/research/science/design
Send a full CV with your job application.
Cwtch up to your mam!
Online sales surged on Cyber Monday.
Cyber Monday bargains/deals
cybernetics
cybercafe
Fourteen people were arrested for launching a cyberattack on the company's website.
The school provides guidance for parents on how to deal with issues such as cyberbullying.
The company isn't doing enough to secure its systems against cyberthreats.
We went for a cycle ride on Sunday.
a cycle route/track
the cycle of the seasons
eight cycles per second
the rinse cycle (= in a washing machine)
I usually cycle home through the park.
the cyclic processes of nature
Economic activity often follows a cyclical pattern.
events that occur cyclically
to go cycling
Cycling is Europe's second most popular sport.
cycling shorts
a gas/oxygen cylinder
a six-cylinder engine
huge cylindrical gas tanks
a clash/crash of cymbals
Cynics will say that there is not the slightest chance of success.
In a world full of cynicism she was the one person I felt I could trust.
Do you have to be so cynical about everything?
a cynical view/smile
I'm a bit cynical about the benefits of the plan.
a cynical disregard for the safety of others
a deliberate and cynical foul
Ruth was the cynosure of all eyes.
'Dog' begins with (a) D/'D'.
He got (a) D/'D' in/for Geography.
Emily Clifton, d. 1865
Philip Smith, d.b.a. Phil's Signs
D'oh! That was the biggest mistake ever.
She dabbed her eyes and blew her nose.
He dabbed at the cut with his handkerchief.
She dabbed a little perfume behind her ears.
She put a dab of perfume behind her ears.
He gave the cut a quick dab with a towel.
He's in hospital again. Poor dab.
He's a dab hand at cooking spaghetti.
She's a dab hand with a paintbrush.
He dabbles in local politics.
She dabbled her toes in the stream.
There have been several dacoities on moving trains.
to commit dacoity
That's my dad over there.
Do you live with your mum or your dad?
Is it OK if I borrow the car, Dad?
What does your daddy look like?
Daddy, where are you?
Come to Daddy.
Don't be so daft!
She's not as daft as she looks.
What a daft thing to say!
She was arrested for smoking dagga.
a daggy restaurant
a daily routine/visit/newspaper
events affecting the daily lives of millions of people
Invoices are signed on a daily basis.
They charge a daily rate.
The machines are inspected twice daily.
The story was in all the dailies.
dainty feet
a dainty porcelain cup
She took a dainty little bite of the apple.
She blew her nose as daintily as possible.
I went to buy a paper at the corner dairy.
The doctor told me to eat less red meat and dairy.
dairy products/produce
the dairy industry
dairy cattle/farmers
a dairy cow/farm
a daisy wheel printer
the Yorkshire Dales
the Dalits' struggle for social and economic rights
It turned out to be his last dalliance with the education system.
serious/severe/extensive/permanent/minor damage
brain/liver etc. damage
fire/smoke/bomb/storm damage
The earthquake caused damage to property estimated at $6 million.
The storm didn't do much damage.
Let's take a look at the damage.
I insist on paying for the damage.
Make sure you insure your camera against loss or damage.
emotional damage resulting from divorce
damage to a person's reputation
This could cause serious damage to the country's economy.
I'm going—I've done enough damage here already.
He was ordered to pay damages totalling £30 000.
They intend to sue for damages.
Ann was awarded £6 000 (in) damages.
The fire badly damaged the town hall.
Several vehicles were damaged in the crash.
Smoking seriously damages your health.
The allegations are likely to damage his political career.
emotionally damaged children
Hard work never hurt anyone.
Pollution can harm marine life.
It won't hurt him to have to wait a bit.
Even one drink can impair driving performance.
damaging consequences/effects
Lead is potentially damaging to children's health.
Spending a night in jail was his road to Damascus.
a damask tablecloth
Dame Maggie Smith
Oh damn! I forgot he was coming.
Where's that damn book!
The damned thing won't start!
It's none of your damn business!
He's a damn nuisance!
What a damn shame!
Damn you! I'm not going to let you bully me.
Damn this machine! Why won't it work?
The film was damned by the critics for its mindless violence.
Let's celebrate and damn the expense!
I'm damned if I'll apologize!
I'm damned if I know who he is.
Don't be so damn silly!
What a damn stupid question!
You know damn well (= you know very well) what I mean!
I'll damn well leave tonight (= I am determined to).
damn good
We got out pretty damned fast!
I'm damn sure she had no idea.
I know damn all about computers.
eternal damnation
It's the damnedest thing I ever saw.
She did her damnedest to get it done on time.
damning criticism/evidence
a damning conclusion/report
Her report is expected to deliver a damning indictment of education standards.
The cottage was cold and damp.
It feels damp in here.
damp clothes
Wipe the surface with a damp cloth.
The car had skidded on the wet road.
You'll get wet(= in the rain) if you go out now.
a lovely rich moist cake
You're soaked through!(= completely wet)
We were caught in the storm and came home drenched to the skin.
soaked/drenched with/in sweat/blood
their soaked clothes
The ground is completely saturated: it would be pointless to plant anything.
The blouse clung damply to her skin.
The old house smells of damp.
Those marks above the window look like damp to me.
She damped a towel and wrapped it round his leg.
Perspiration dampened her face and neck.
He dampened his hair to make it lie flat.
None of the setbacks could dampen his enthusiasm for the project.
She wasn't going to let anything dampen her spirits today.
To avoid dampness, air the room regularly.
a damson tree
a dance class/routine
Find a partner and practise these new dance steps.
Do you know any other Latin American dances?
The next dance will be a waltz.
an evening of drama, music and dance
modern/classical dance
a dance company/troupe
Let's have a dance.
He did a little dance of triumph.
We hold a dance every year to raise money for charity.
The band finished with a few slow dances.
Do you want to dance?
He asked me to dance.
They stayed up all night singing and dancing.
They danced to the music of a string quartet.
Ruth danced all evening with Richard.
Ruth and Richard danced together all evening.
to dance the tango
to dance a waltz
The children danced around her.
The sun shone on the sea and the waves danced and sparkled.
The words danced before her tired eyes.
dancing classes
There was music and dancing till two in the morning.
She's a fantastic dancer.
He's a dancer with the Royal Ballet.
It's just dang stupid!
Danger! Keep Out!
Children's lives are in danger every time they cross this road.
Doctors said she is now out of danger (= not likely to die).
There is no danger of a bush fire now.
The building is in danger of collapsing.
How many factory workers are in danger of losing their jobs?
'Nicky won't find out, will she?' 'Oh, no, there's no danger of that.'
There is a danger that the political disorder of the past will return.
Smoking is a serious danger to health.
Police said the man was a danger to the public.
the hidden dangers in your home
a dangerous road/illness/sport
dangerous levels of carbon monoxide
The prisoners who escaped are violent and dangerous.
The situation is highly dangerous.
(BrE) a conviction for dangerous driving
The traffic here is very dangerous for children.
It would be dangerous for you to stay here.
She was standing dangerously close to the fire.
His father is dangerously ill (= so ill that he might die).
Mel enjoys living dangerously (= doing things that involve risk or danger).
We'd be on dangerous ground if we asked about race or religion.
Gold charms dangled from her bracelet.
A single light bulb dangled from the ceiling.
He sat on the edge with his legs dangling over the side.
She dangled her car keys nervously as she spoke.
a pair of dangly earrings
She kept him dangling for a week before making her decision.
a dark dank cave
the cool dappled light under the trees
She said it as loudly as she dared.
He didn't dare (to) say what he thought.
They daren't ask for any more money.
(literary) She dared not breathe a word of it to anybody.
There was something, dare I say it, a little unusual about him.
I didn't dare to ask.
He won't dare to break his promise.
You told him? How did you dare?
I hardly dared to hope she'd remember me.
She wasn't afraid(= she dared) to tell him the truth.
I daren't tell her the truth.
Don't you dare tell her what I said!
I didn't dare look at him.
Go on! Take it! I dare you.
Some of the older boys had dared him to do it.
'I'll tell her about it.' 'Don't you dare!'
Don't you dare say anything to anybody.
How dare you talk to me like that?
How dare she imply that I was lying?
I dare say you know about it already.
(BrE) He climbed onto the roof for a dare.
(NAmE) She learned to fly on a dare.
a reckless daredevil
Don't try any daredevil stunts.
a daring walk in space
There are plenty of activities at the resort for the less daring.
The gallery was known for putting on daring exhibitions.
a daring strapless dress in black silk
the skill and daring of the mountain climbers
a dark room/street/forest
What time does it get dark in summer?
It was dark outside and I couldn't see much.
dark blue/green/red, etc.
Darker colours are more practical and don't show stains.
a dark suit
dark-coloured wood
The dark clouds in the sky meant that a storm was coming.
Sue has long dark hair.
Even if you have dark skin, you still need protection from the sun.
a dark handsome stranger
There are no dark secrets in our family.
There was a darker side to his nature.
the dark forces of the imagination
the darkest days of Fascism
The film is a dark vision of the future.
All the lights went out and we were left in the dark.
Are the children afraid of the dark?
animals that can see in the dark
patterns of light and dark
Workers were kept in the dark about the plans to sell the company.
She arrived at the meeting as much in the dark as everyone else.
Back in the dark ages of computing, in about 1980, they started a software company.
The sky began to darken as the storm approached.
We walked quickly through the darkened streets.
a darkened room
Her mood darkened at the news.
Luke's face darkened (= he looked angry).
It was a tragedy that darkened his later life.
the darkling sky
He hinted darkly that all was not well.
Her eyes burned darkly.
After a few minutes our eyes got used to the darkness.
The house was plunged into total darkness when the electricity was cut off.
The sun went down and darkness fell (= it became night).
There is an extra hour of darkness on winter mornings.
Parking is not allowed during the hours of darkness.
Her face was in darkness.
They managed to escape under cover of darkness.
It depends on the darkness of your skin.
the forces of darkness
What's the matter, darling?
You are a darling, Hugo.
She is the darling of the newspapers and can do no wrong.
My darling daughter.
'Darling Henry,' the letter began.
to darn socks
Darn it! I've lost my keys!
Why don't you switch the darn thing off and listen to me!
You had a darn good try.
It's darn cold tonight.
That's a darned good idea!
a poisoned dart
a darts match
She made a dart for the door.
Nina felt a sudden dart of panic.
A dog darted across the road in front of me.
Her eyes darted around the room, looking for Greg.
He darted an impatient look at Vicky.
He darted Vicky an impatient look.
Darwinian ideas
When the doors opened, there was a mad dash for seats.
a 60-mile dash to safety
He jumped off the bus and made a dash for the nearest bar.
We waited for the police to leave then made a dash for it (= left quickly in order to escape).
a last-minute dash to buy presents
Add a dash of lemon juice.
The rug adds a dash of colour to the room.
the 100-meter dash
I must dash (= leave quickly), I'm late.
She dashed off to keep an appointment.
He dashed along the platform and jumped on the train.
The boat was dashed repeatedly against the rocks.
The waves were dashing against the harbour wall.
I dashed off a note to my brother.
an executive dashboard showing key performance indicators
a dashing young officer
his dashing good looks
his dashing red waistcoat
My first part was Captain O'Hagarty, a dastardly villain in a children's play.
This data was collected from 69 countries.
the analysis/interpretation of the data
raw data (= that has not been analysed)
demographical/historical/personal data
(specialist) These data show that most cancers are detected as a result of clinical follow-up.
data retrieval (= ways of storing or finding information on a computer)
pottery that is datable to the second century
'What's the date today?' 'The 10th.'
Write today's date at the top of the page.
We need to fix a date for the next meeting.
They haven't set a date for the wedding yet.
I can't come on that date.
Please give your name, address and date of birth.
(especially NAmE) name, address and birth date
There's no date on this letter.
The details can be added at a later date.
The work will be carried out at a future date.
a building of late Roman date
Call me next week and we'll try and make a date.
Next Friday? Fine—it's a date!
I've got a date with Lucy tomorrow night.
Paul's not coming. He's got a hot date (= an exciting one).
My date is meeting me at seven.
To date, we have received over 200 replies.
The exhibition contains some of his best work to date.
Thank you for your letter dated 24th March.
The skeleton has been dated at about 2 000 BC.
She designs classic clothes which do not date.
I was at the Woodstock festival—that dates me, doesn't it?
She's been dating Ron for several months.
The college dates back to medieval times.
The custom dates back hundreds of years.
a law dating from the 17th century
These ideas seem a bit dated now.
He met his wife through a computer dating agency.
In the sentence, 'I sent her a postcard', the word 'her' is in the dative.
the dative case
The walls of the building were daubed with red paint.
walls made of wattle and daub
a daub of lipstick
We have two sons and a daughter.
They have three grown-up daughters.
She's the daughter of an Oxford professor.
one of the town's most famous daughters
She was a brave woman but she felt daunted by the task ahead.
She has the daunting task of cooking for 20 people every day.
Starting a new job can be a daunting prospect.
Nothing daunted, the people set about rebuilding their homes.
The match looks like being a David and Goliath contest.
Stop dawdling! We're going to be late!
They dawdled along by the river, laughing and talking.
They start work at dawn.
It's almost dawn.
We arrived in Sydney as dawn broke (= as the first light could be seen).
I woke up just before dawn.
summer's early dawns
He works from dawn till dusk (= from morning till night).
the dawn of civilization/time/history
Peace marked a new dawn in the country's history.
The following morning dawned bright and warm.
A new technological age had dawned.
Slowly the awful truth dawned.
Suddenly it dawned on me that they couldn't possibly have met before.
I saw Tom three days ago.
'What day is it today?' 'Monday.'
We're going away in a few days/in a few days' time.
They left the day before yesterday (= two days ago).
We're meeting the day after tomorrow (= in two days).
New Year's Day
Take the medicine three times a day.
We can't go there today. You can go another day.
The sun was shining all day.
I could sit and watch the river all day long.
He works at night and sleeps during the day.
Nocturnal animals sleep by day and hunt by night.
a seven-hour working day
It's been a long day (= I've been very busy).
Did you have a good day?
She didn't do a full day's work.
I took a half day off yesterday.
(NAmE) Have a nice day!
in Queen Victoria's day
the early days of computers
Most women stayed at home in those days.
(informal) in the old days (= in the past)
She hates doing the same work day after day.
Day by day his condition improved.
His days as leader of the party are numbered.
It's never worked from day one.
They live from day to day, looking after their sick daughter.
A baby's need for food can vary from day to day.
I never know what to expect from one day to the next.
She's had her day as a supermodel.
Our car has seen better days!
He must be 70 if he's a day!
She was a great dancer in her day.
In my day, there were plenty of jobs when you left school.
My car broke down and then I locked myself out—it's just not my day!
The phone call from Mike really made my day.
Come on! We don't have all day!
the best player of his day
Bessie Smith was the Madonna of her day.
soup of the day
Oh my days! Is that true?
One day, I want to leave the city and move to the country.
One day, he walked out of the house with a small bag and never came back.
One of these days you'll come back and ask me to forgive you.
It's been one of those days!
Some day I'll be famous.
I don't know if he'll get better. We're just taking it one day at a time.
Paul? Apologize? That'll be the day!
These days kids grow up so quickly.
It's been three years to the day since we met.
To this day, I still don't understand why he did it.
He ended his days in poverty.
We don't go out much. Give me a quiet night in front of the TV any day!
He started working hard much too late in the day—he couldn't possibly catch up.
The machines are kept running night and day.
That was in the bad old days of rampant inflation.
Pessimism seems to be the order of the day.
I saw Jack the other day.
Gerrard's late goal saved the day for Liverpool.
Since the success of her novel, people shake her hand who once wouldn't have given her the time of day.
Day care is provided by the company she works for.
So you want to be a writer? Well my advice is, don't give up the day job.
Most weeks, Sunday is my only day off.
Why not take a few days off?
We had a day out in the country.
time off for study on day release
a day release course
a day school at Leeds University on women in Victorian times
a day trip to France
Day-Glo cycling shorts
I have organized the cleaning on a day-to-day basis, until our usual cleaner returns.
She has been looking after the day-to-day running of the school.
We left before daybreak.
She stared out of the window, lost in a daydream.
I would spend hours daydreaming about a house of my own.
They emerged from the church into the bright daylight.
The street looks very different in daylight.
They left before daylight (= before the sun had risen).
You wouldn't believe some of the prices they charge; it's daylight robbery.
a daylong meeting
You don't often see this bird in (the) daytime.
The park is open during (the) daytime.
Daytime temperatures never fell below 30°C.
Please give your name and daytime phone number.
I've been in a complete daze since hearing the news.
Survivors waited for the rescue boats, dazed and frightened.
Jimmy was still dazed by the blow to his head.
He was momentarily dazzled by the strong sunlight.
He was dazzled by the warmth of her smile.
a dazzling display of oriental dance
She was dazzlingly beautiful.
a DBS check
Washington, DC
My DD is nearly a year old now.
The general took de facto control of the country.
He continued to rule the country de facto.
He held power de jure and de facto (= both according to the law and in reality).
Evening dress is de rigueur at the casino.
decentralization
to defrost the refrigerator (= remove layers of ice from it)
De-stress yourself with a relaxing bath.
Do you know how to deactivate the alarm?
My mother's dead; she died in 1987.
a dead person/animal
dead leaves/wood/skin
He was shot dead by a gunman outside his home.
Catherine's dead body lay peacefully on the bed.
He dropped dead (= died suddenly) last week.
The poor child looks more dead than alive.
(figurative) In ten years he'll be dead and buried as a politician.
Many believe the peace plan is dead.
Unfortunately racism is not yet dead.
Though the idea may be dead, it is far from being buried (= people still talk about it, even though there is nothing new to say).
Is the Western a dead art form?
a dead language (= one that is no longer spoken, for example Latin)
dead matches
There were two dead bottles of wine on the table.
a dead battery
Suddenly the phone went dead.
There were no theatres, no cinemas, no coffee bars. It was dead as anything.
'The market is absolutely dead this morning,' said one foreign exchange trader.
Winter is traditionally the dead season for the housing market.
half dead with cold and hunger
She felt dead on her feet and didn't have the energy to question them further.
My left arm had gone dead.
He was dead to all feelings of pity.
She said, 'I'm sorry, too,' in a quiet, dead voice.
His usually dead grey eyes were sparkling.
a dead silence/calm
the dead centre of the target
The car gave a sudden jerk and came to a dead stop.
(BrE) This horse is a dead cert for (= will certainly win) the race tomorrow.
She crumpled to the floor in a dead faint (= completely unconscious).
dead matter (= for example rock)
a dead planet (= one with no life on it)
We need to free business from the dead hand of bureaucracy.
His leadership campaign is dead in the water.
If anyone finds out, you're dead meat.
She wouldn't be seen dead in a hat.
He wouldn't be caught dead going to a club with his mother.
You look fabulous—you'll knock 'em dead tonight.
The dead and wounded in that one attack amounted to 6 000.
Christians believe that God raised Jesus from the dead.
(figurative) In nine years he has brought his party back from the dead almost to the brink of power.
I crept out of bed in the dead of night and sneaked downstairs.
You're dead right!
(BrE) a dead straight road
(BrE) The train was dead on time.
He's dead against the idea.
The sight made him stop dead in his tracks (= stop suddenly).
She's dead set on getting (= determined to get) this new job.
The instructions are dead easy to follow.
You were dead lucky to get that job.
I was dead scared.
You look dead beat.
The first street we tried turned out to be a dead end.
We had come to a dead end in our research.
He's in a dead-end job in the local factory (= one with low wages and no hope of promotion).
These negotiations are a dead-end street (= they have reached a point where no further progress is possible).
The two candidates are in a dead heat in the polls.
He may be a very talented designer, but as a manager he's a dead loss.
The town is a cultural dead zone.
The UN is trying to maintain a dead zone between the warring groups.
He was given drugs to deaden the pain.
the deadening effect of alcohol on your reactions
a deadly weapon/disease
deadly poison
The cobra is one of the world's deadliest snakes.
The terrorists have chosen to play a deadly game with the civilian population.
I'm in deadly earnest.
We sat in deadly silence.
They are deadly enemies (= are full of hatred for each other).
His aim is deadly (= so accurate that he can kill easily).
It was the deadly striker's 11th goal of the season.
The lecture was absolutely deadly.
deadly serious/dull
deadly pale/cold
I prefer to work to a deadline.
The deadline for applications is 30 April.
the January 15 deadline set by the United Nations
European agriculture ministers failed to break the deadlock over farm subsidies.
(BrE) The strike appeared to have reached deadlock.
(NAmE, BrE) The strike has reached a deadlock.
Despite months of discussion the negotiations remained deadlocked.
Greed is one of the seven deadly sins.
deadpan humour
to become/go deaf
She was born deaf.
television subtitles for the deaf and hard of hearing
He was deaf to my requests for help.
Her advice fell on deaf ears.
He turned a deaf ear to the rumours.
The noise of the siren was deafening her.
deafening applause
The noise of the machine was deafening.
The government's response to the report has been a deafening silence (= it was very noticeable that nothing was said or done).
Whose turn is it to deal?
Start by dealing out ten cards to each player.
He dealt me two aces.
You can often see people dealing openly on the streets.
That's the way it is, so deal with it!
The company deals in computer software.
We don't deal in rumours or guesswork.
That sounds great. Deal me in!
The profits were dealt out among the investors.
Many judges deal out harsher sentences to men than to women.
She is used to dealing with all kinds of people in her job.
to deal with enquiries/issues/complaints
Have you dealt with these letters yet?
He's good at dealing with pressure.
Her poems often deal with the subject of death.
They spent a great deal of money.
It took a great deal of time.
I'm feeling a good deal better.
We see them a great deal (= often).
to make/sign/conclude/close a deal (with sb)
(informal) Did you cut a deal (= make one)?
We did a deal with the management on overtime.
They were hoping for a better pay deal.
A deal was struck after lengthy negotiations.
The deal fell through (= no agreement was reached).
I got a good deal on the car (= bought it cheaply).
It's a deal! (= I agree to your terms)
Listen. This is the deal (= this is what we have agreed and are going to do).
If elected, the party has promised a new deal (= better and fairer treatment) for teachers.
They knew they'd been given a raw/rough deal (= been treated unfairly).
We tried to ensure that everyone got a fair deal.
It was a square deal for everyone.
It's your deal.
a deal table
What's the deal? Do you want to go out or not?
The candidate's support for the war is the deal-breaker (= people will not vote for the candidate because of it).
an art/antique dealer
He's a dealer in second-hand cars.
a Ford dealership
Have you had any previous dealings with this company?
I knew nothing of his business dealings.
She has always been very polite in her dealings with me.
a reputation for fair/honest dealing
drug dealing
dealings in shares
The evening was deemed a great success.
She deemed it prudent not to say anything.
They would take any action deemed necessary.
He's one of my dearest friends.
Her daughter is very dear to her.
Dear Sir or Madam
Dear Mrs Jones
Dear old Sue! I knew she'd help.
Their baby's a dear little thing.
He had destroyed everything we held dear.
She was holding on to the rope for dear life.
Run for your life!
Oh dear! I think I've lost my purse!
Oh dear! What a shame.
Dear me! What a mess!
Dear oh dear! What are you going to do now?
Isn't he a dear?
Be a dear and fetch me my coat.
Would you like a drink, dear?
Come here, my dear.
What's your name, dear?
to buy cheap and sell dear
'Dearest Nina', the letter began.
It was her dearest wish to have a family.
Come (my) dearest, let's go home.
Sit down, dearie.
She loves him dearly.
I would dearly like/love to know what he was thinking.
dearly beloved (= used by a minister at a Christian church service to address people)
Success has cost him dearly.
She paid dearly for her mistake.
There was a dearth of reliable information on the subject.
a sudden/violent/peaceful, etc. death
the anniversary of his wife's death
an increase in deaths from cancer
He died a slow and painful death.
Two children were burnt to death in the fire (= they died as a result of the fire).
He's drinking himself to death (= so that it will kill him).
Police are trying to establish the cause of death.
Do you believe in life after death?
a death camp (= a place where prisoners are killed, usually in a war)
He was sentenced to death (= to be executed).
the death of all my plans
the death of fascism
Death is often shown in paintings as a human skeleton.
That joke's been done to death.
The prisoner will be put to death at dawn.
to be bored to death
I'm sick to death of your endless criticism.
a fight to the death
The play got terrible reviews and quickly died a death.
Successive governments have fought shy of such measures.
They thought the arrival of television would deal a death blow to mass cinema audiences.
the abolition/return of the death penalty
The two men are facing the death penalty.
a high/low death rate
Death rates from heart disease have risen considerably in recent years.
prisoners on death row
to be given/to receive the death sentence for murder
The regime is now in its death throes.
The President signed the death warrant.
If you pay the ransom, you may be signing your son's death warrant.
(figurative) By withdrawing the funding, the government signed the project's death warrant.
a deathbed confession/conversion
He told me the truth on his deathbed (= as he lay dying).
She was on her deathbed (= going to die very soon).
(humorous) You'd have to be practically on your deathbed before the doctor would come and see you!
(ironic) written in his usual deathless prose (= very bad)
Her face was deathly pale.
The house was deathly still.
A deathly hush fell over the room as he walked in.
The cars blocking the exits could turn this place into a deathtrap.
He was debarred from holding public office.
Sport is being debased by commercial sponsorship.
a debatable point
It is highly debatable whether conditions have improved for low-income families.
a debate on abortion
The minister opened the debate (= was the first to speak).
The motion under debate (= being discussed) was put to a vote.
After a long debate, Congress approved the proposal.
a heated/wide-ranging/lively debate
the current debate about tax
There had been much debate on the issue of childcare.
Whether he deserves what has happened to him is open to debate/a matter for debate (= cannot be certain or decided yet).
The theatre's future is a subject of considerable debate.
Politicians will be debating the bill later this week.
The question of the origin of the universe is still hotly debated (= strongly argued about) by scientists.
The committee will debate whether to lower the age of club membership to 16.
She debated with herself for a while, and then picked up the phone.
We're debating whether or not to go skiing this winter.
For a moment he debated going after her.
a debating society at a school
a debilitating disease
Prolonged strike action debilitated the industry.
on the debit side of an account
(figurative) On the debit side (= a negative result will be that) the new shopping centre will increase traffic problems.
The money will be debited from your account each month.
He was taken to a US airbase to be debriefed on the mission.
a debriefing session
Emergency teams are still clearing the debris from the plane crash.
Clear away leaves and other garden debris from the pond.
I need to pay off all my debts before I leave the country.
an outstanding debt of £300
He had run up credit card debts of thousands of dollars.
He died heavily in debt.
The club is £4 million in debt.
We were poor but we never got into debt.
It's hard to stay out of debt when you are a student.
a country's foreign debt burden
to owe a debt of gratitude to sb
I would like to acknowledge my debt to my teachers.
His theories have been debunked by recent research.
He will make his debut for the first team this week.
the band's debut album
The ballet will debut next month in New York.
They will debut the products at the trade show.
decathlon
the decadence of modern Western society
the decadent rich
a decadent lifestyle/society
(BrE) Regular coffee or Decaf?
I'll have a decaff, please.
His decapitated body was found floating in a canal.
If we decarbonize electricity then through electric cars we can decarbonize transport.
a decasyllabic line
tooth decay
The landlord had let the building fall into decay.
The smell of death and decay hung over the town.
economic/moral/urban decay
the decay of the old industries
decaying leaves/teeth/food
decaying inner city areas
decaying standards of morality
her deceased parents
He was accused of lies and deceit.
Everyone was involved in this web of deceit.
Their marriage was an illusion and a deceit.
Her husband had been deceiving her for years.
She deceived him into handing over all his savings.
You're deceiving yourself if you think he'll change his mind.
Unless my eyes deceive me, that's his wife.
Economic growth decelerated sharply in June.
Her behaviour showed a total lack of common decency.
Have you no sense of decency?
He might have had the decency to apologize.
the basic decencies of civilized society
The plane began to descend.
The results, ranked in descending order (= from the highest to the lowest) are as follows.…
She descended the stairs slowly.
At this point the path descends steeply.
Night descends quickly in the tropics.
Calm descended on the crowd.
The country was descending into chaos.
Hundreds of football fans descended on the city.
They descended to the level of personal insults.
He was an O'Conor and a direct descendant of the last High King of Ireland.
Many of them are descendants of the original settlers.
(informal) a decent meal/job/place to live
I need a decent night's sleep.
ordinary, decent, hard-working people
Everyone said he was a decent sort of guy.
a decent burial
That dress isn't decent.
She ought to have waited for a decent interval before getting married again.
I can't go to the door—I'm not decent.
He did the decent thing and resigned.
decentralized authority/administration
a drama full of lies and deception
He was accused of obtaining property by deception.
The whole episode had been a cruel deception.
a deceptive advertisement
Appearances can often be deceptive (= things are not always what they seem to be).
the deceptive simplicity of her writing style (= it seems simple but is not really)
a deceptively simple idea
It is possible to discern a number of different techniques in her work.
He discerned a certain coldness in their welcome.
It is often difficult to discern how widespread public support is.
I quickly discerned that something was wrong.
We could just discern the house in the distance.
There is often no discernible difference between rival brands.
His face was barely discernible in the gloom.
decilitre
It's up to you to decide.
It was difficult to decide between the two candidates.
They decided against taking legal action.
I can't decide what to wear.
She decided (that) she wanted to live in France.
We've decided not to go away after all.
We might be hiring more people but nothing has been decided yet.
It was decided (that) the school should purchase new software.
The case will be decided by a jury.
The Appeal Court decided in their favour.
It is always possible that the judge may decide against you.
A mixture of skill and good luck decided the outcome of the game.
A number of factors decide whether a movie will be successful or not.
For most customers, price is the deciding factor.
They offered me free accommodation for a year, and that decided me.
We're still trying to decide on a venue.
His height was a decided advantage in the job.
She was a very decided young woman, eager to do some good in the world.
The child is very decided about what she wants and doesn't want.
Amy was looking decidedly worried.
'I won't go,' she said decidedly.
families in the top decile of income (= the 10% of families with the highest income)
the decimal system
The decimal 0.61 stands for 61 hundredths.
The figure is accurate to two decimal places.
The question asks you to decimalize the fraction ⅞.
The rabbit population was decimated by the disease.
Cheap imports decimated the British cycle industry.
to decipher a code
Can anyone decipher his handwriting?
to make a decision (= to decide)
(BrE) to take a decision (= to decide)
We need a decision on this by next week.
Who took the decision to go ahead with the project?
He is really bad at making decisions.
We finally reached a decision (= decided after some difficulty).
We must come to a decision about what to do next by tomorrow.
a big (= an important) decision
The final decision is yours.
It's a difficult decision for any doctor.
The editor's decision is final.
Mary is the decision-maker in the house.
This is not a job for someone who lacks decision.
The moment of decision had arrived.
a decisive factor/victory/battle
a decisive step (= an important action that will change a situation) towards a cleaner environment
decisive management
The government must take decisive action on gun control.
I was the only person on deck at that time of night.
As the storm began, everyone disappeared below deck(s).
the upper/lower/main deck of a ship
We sat on the top deck of the bus.
My cabin is on deck C.
a cassette/tape deck
The room was decked out in flowers and balloons.
She declaimed the famous opening speech of the play.
He declaimed against the evils of alcohol.
to issue/sign a declaration
the Declaration of Independence (= of the United States)
a declaration of love/faith/guilt
a declaration of income
customs declarations (= giving details of goods that have been brought into a country)
The government has declared a state of emergency.
Germany declared war on France on 1 August 1914.
The government has declared war on (= officially stated its intention to stop) illiteracy.
The court declared that strike action was illegal.
The area has been declared a national park.
The contract was declared void.
I declare this bridge open.
'I'll do it!' Tom declared.
He declared that he was in love with her.
Few people dared to declare their opposition to the regime.
She declared herself extremely hurt by his lack of support.
All income must be declared.
Do you have anything to declare?
the government's declared intention to reduce crime
declassified information/documents
a rapid/sharp/gradual decline
urban/economic decline
The company reported a small decline in its profits.
An increase in cars has resulted in the decline of public transport.
The town fell into (a) decline (= started to be less busy, important, etc.) after the mine closed.
Industry in Britain has been in decline since the 1970s.
Support for the party continues to decline.
The number of tourists to the resort declined by 10% last year.
Her health was declining rapidly.
I offered to give them a lift but they declined.
to decline an offer/invitation
Their spokesman declined to comment on the allegations.
Moving is a good opportunity to declutter.
a 7-step plan to help you declutter your home
decoding equipment
a satellite/video decoder
a decomposing corpse
As the waste materials decompose, they produce methane gas.
a decomposed body
the decomposition of organic waste
a decompression chamber (= a piece of equipment that divers sit in so that they can return slowly to normal air pressure after being deep in the sea)
decompression sickness (= severe pain and difficulty in breathing experienced by divers who come back to the surface of deep water too quickly)
a nasal decongestant
a deconsecrated church
Picasso deconstructed his subjects into cubes and colours.
deconstructed lasagne
a deconstructionist critic/approach
the process of decontaminating areas exposed to radioactivity
interior decor
the restaurant's elegant new decor
They decorated the room with flowers and balloons.
The cake was decorated to look like a car.
I hate decorating.
He has his own painting and decorating business.
We need to decorate the sitting room.
The sitting room needs decorating.
Photographs of actors decorated the walls of the restaurant.
Christmas decorations
a table decoration
the elaborate decoration on the carved wooden door
a Chinese theme in the interior decoration
The mirror is functional yet decorative.
purely decorative arches
a decorous kiss
The number of new students decreased from 210 to 160 this year.
a decreasing population
The price of wheat has decreased by 5%.
This species of bird is decreasing in numbers every year.
People should decrease the amount of fat they eat.
There has been some decrease in military spending this year.
a decrease of nearly 6% in the number of visitors to the museum
to issue/sign a decree
a leader who rules by decree (= not in a democratic way)
The government decreed a state of emergency.
We cannot decree what the committee should do.
It was decreed that the following day would be a holiday.
The period between the decree nisi and the decree absolute was six weeks.
Can you describe him to me?
The man was described as tall and dark, and aged about 20.
Jim was described by his colleagues as 'unusual'.
Describe how you did it.
Several people described seeing strange lights in the sky.
The shark described a circle around the shoal of fish.
The measures were decried as useless.
There are moves to decriminalize some soft drugs.
She dedicates herself to her work.
He dedicated his life to helping the poor.
This book is dedicated to my parents.
The chapel was dedicated in 1880.
A memorial stone was dedicated to those who were killed in the war.
a dedicated teacher
She is dedicated to her job.
Software is exported through a dedicated satellite link.
hard work and dedication
We can deduce a lot from what people choose to buy.
Can we deduce from your silence that you do not approve?
Ten points will be deducted for a wrong answer.
The cost of your uniform will be deducted from your wages.
These costs are deductible from profits.
tax-deductible expenses (= that you do not have to pay tax on)
a policy with a very high deductible
He arrived at the solution by a simple process of deduction.
If my deductions are correct, I can tell you who the killer was.
deductions from your pay for tax, etc.
tax deductions
deductive logic/reasoning
a(n) brave/charitable/evil/good deed
a tale of heroic deeds
the deeds of the house
Signing a deed of covenant makes £1 worth £1.20.
Smith changed his name by deed poll to Jervis-Smith.
a deep hole/well/river
deep water/snow
a deep cut/wound
a deep space
The water is only a few inches deep.
How deep is the wound?
The water was only waist-deep so I walked ashore.
They were standing three-deep at the bar.
She took a deep breath.
He gave a deep sigh.
I heard his deep warm voice filling the room.
a deep roar/groan
a rich deep red
to be in a deep sleep/trance/coma
He's in deep trouble.
a deep economic recession
The affair had exposed deep divisions within the party.
a place of great power and of deep significance
deep respect
a deep sense of loss
a deep understanding
This discussion's getting too deep for me.
He pondered, as if over some deep philosophical point.
to be deep in thought/conversation
He is often so deep in his books that he forgets to eat.
The firm ended up deep in debt.
She's always been a deep one, trusting no one.
a deep ball from Brown
Junior hospital doctors are thrown in at the deep end in their first jobs.
I'll be in the shit if I don't get this work finished today.
Dig deeper!
The miners were trapped deep underground.
whales that feed deep beneath the waves
He gazed deep into her eyes.
They sat and talked deep into the night (= until very late).
deep in the forest
He stood with his hands deep in his pockets.
We decided to go deeper into the jungle.
deeply in love
deeply shocked
She can seem stern, but deep down she's a very kind person.
Deep down I still loved him.
He seems confident but deep down he's quite insecure.
Dignity and pride run deep in this community.
You'll need to dig deep into the records to find the figures you want.
We're asking you to dig deep for the earthquake victims.
in the deep of night/winter (= in the middle of the night/of winter)
the deeps of Loch Ness
(figurative) the deeps of sorrow
Passengers on long-haul flights are being warned about the risks of deep vein thrombosis.
a deep-dyed socialist
deep-fried chicken pieces
a deep-rooted desire
The country's political divisions are deep-seated.
a deep-sea diver
deep-sea fishing/diving
Plans to build a new mall were deep-sixed after protests from local residents.
Their friendship soon deepened into love.
Warships were sent in as the crisis deepened.
a deepening economic recession
The water deepened gradually.
His frown deepened.
There were plans to deepen a stretch of the river.
an opportunity for students to deepen their understanding of different cultures
deepening shadows
His voice deepened to a growl.
She is deeply religious.
They were deeply disturbed by the accident.
Opinion is deeply divided on this issue.
deeply rooted customs/ideas
deeply held beliefs/convictions/views (= that sb feels very strongly)
to breathe/sigh/exhale deeply (= using all of the air in your lungs)
sleep deeply (= in a way that makes it difficult for you to wake up)
to think deeply (= about all the aspects of sth)
to drill deeply into the wood
a herd of deer
a deer park
a def band
The company sued for defamation.
The company is in default on the loan.
Mortgage defaults have risen in the last year.
The default option is to save your work every five minutes.
What is your default browser?
They accepted what he had said in default of any evidence to disprove it.
to default on a loan/debt
defaulting borrowers/tenants
mortgage defaulters
He defeated the champion in three sets.
a defeated army
The motion was defeated by 19 votes.
Staying late at the office to discuss shorter working hours rather defeats the object of the exercise!
The instruction manual completely defeated me.
The party faces defeat in the election.
a narrow/heavy defeat
The world champion has only had two defeats in 20 fights.
They finally had to admit defeat (= stop trying to be successful).
the defeat of fascism
a defeatist attitude/view
He is a pessimist and a defeatist.
a budget/trade deficit
The trade balance has been in deficit for the past five years.
There's a deficit of $3 million in the total needed to complete the project.
The team has to come back from a 2–0 deficit in the first half.
a speech defect
a defect in the glass
There have been several defections from the ruling party.
defective goods
Her hearing was found to be slightly defective.
soldiers who died in defence of their country
When her brother was criticized she leapt to his defence.
What points can be raised in defence of this argument?
I have to say in her defence that she knew nothing about it beforehand.
The town walls were built as a defence against enemy attacks.
The harbour's sea defences are in poor condition.
The body has natural defence mechanisms to protect it from disease.
Humour is a more effective defence than violence.
(BrE) the Ministry of Defence
(NAmE) the Department of Defense
Further cuts in defence spending are being considered.
a defence of Marxism
Her defence was that she was somewhere completely different at the time of the crime.
He wanted to conduct his own defence.
Welford cut through the defence to score the winning goal.
(BrE) She plays in defence.
(NAmE) He plays on defense.
Barcelona's defence of the Champions League title
defenceless children
The village is defenceless against attack.
a defensive measure
Troops took up a defensive position around the town.
Don't ask him about his plans—he just gets defensive.
defensive play
Their questions about the money put her on the defensive.
Warnings of an enemy attack forced the troops onto the defensive.
Troops have been sent to defend the borders.
All our officers are trained to defend themselves against knife attacks.
It is impossible to defend against an all-out attack.
How can you defend such behaviour?
Politicians are skilled at defending themselves against their critics.
He is defending champion.
She will be defending her title at next month's championships.
(politics 政治) He intends to defend his seat in the next election.
He has employed one of the UK's top lawyers to defend him.
a passionate defender of human rights
Is abortion morally defensible?
The department deferred the decision for six months.
She had applied for deferred admission to college.
We will defer to whatever the committee decides.
The women wore veils in deference to the customs of the country.
The flags were lowered out of deference to the bereaved family.
The term 'mental illness' is difficult to define.
Life imprisonment is defined as 60 years under state law.
We need to define the task ahead very clearly.
The difficulty of a problem was defined in terms of how long it took to complete.
It is difficult to define what makes him so popular.
The mountain was sharply defined against the sky.
Can you give me a definite answer by tomorrow?
I've heard rumours, but nothing definite.
a definite offer of a job
I'm not sure—I can find out for definite if you like.
That's definite then, is it?
They have very definite ideas on how to bring up children.
The look on her face was a definite sign that something was wrong.
There was a definite feeling that things were getting worse.
I'm definite about this.
'We're moving our office to Glasgow.' 'That's a definite, is it?'
'Is Sarah coming to the party?' 'Yes, she's a definite.'
clear simple definitions
Neighbours by definition live close by (= this is what being a neighbour means).
What's your definition of happiness?
The definition of the digital TV pictures is excellent.
a look/an act/a gesture of defiance
Nuclear testing was resumed in defiance of an international ban.
a defiant teenager
The terrorists sent a defiant message to the government.
Vitamin deficiency in the diet can cause illness.
a deficiency of Vitamin B
deficiencies in the computer system
a diet that is deficient in vitamin A
Deaf people are sometimes treated as being mentally deficient.
I wouldn't have dared to defy my teachers.
Hundreds of people today defied the ban on political gatherings.
a political move that defies explanation
The beauty of the scene defies description.
The baby boy defied all the odds and survived (= stayed alive when it seemed certain that he would die).
I defy anyone not to cry at the end of the film.
Many victims of burglary feel their homes have been defiled.
The altar had been defiled by vandals.
I definitely remember sending the letter.
'Was it what you expected?' 'Yes, definitely.'
'Do you plan to have children?' 'Definitely not!'
Some old people want help; others most definitely do not.
The date of the move has not been definitely decided yet (= it may change).
Please say definitely whether you will be coming or not.
a definitive agreement/answer/statement
The definitive version of the text is ready to be published.
the definitive biography of Einstein
All the criticism had left her feeling totally deflated.
deflationary policies
The ball deflected off Reid's body into the goal.
He raised his arm to try to deflect the blow.
All attempts to deflect attention from his private life have failed.
She sought to deflect criticism by blaming her family.
The government will not be deflected from its commitments.
the angle of deflection
the deflection of the missile away from its target
The goal was scored with a deflection off the goalkeeper.
Two thirds of the region has been deforested in the past decade.
The disease had deformed his spine.
a deformation of the spine
She was born with deformed hands.
Drugs taken during pregnancy may cause physical deformity in babies.
All three men were charged with conspiracy to defraud.
They were accused of defrauding the company of $14 000.
a defrocked priest
It will take about four hours to defrost.
Make sure you defrost the chicken completely before cooking.
deft hands/fingers/footwork
He finished off the painting with a few deft strokes of the brush.
her deft command of the language
I threw her a towel which she deftly caught.
They deftly avoided answering my questions.
Local police are trying to defuse racial tension in the community.
26 deg. C
Her health degenerated quickly.
The march degenerated into a riot.
a degenerate popular culture
social/moral degeneration
Intensive farming in the area has caused severe degeneration of the land.
degenerative diseases such as arthritis
When the meat is brown, deglaze the pan with white wine.
the degradation of being sent to prison
environmental degradation
This poster is offensive and degrades women.
the inhuman and degrading treatment of prisoners
an angle of ninety degrees (90°)
Water freezes at 32 degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) or zero/nought degrees Celsius (0°C).
Her job demands a high degree of skill.
I agree with you to a certain degree.
To what degree can parents be held responsible for a child's behaviour?
Most pop music is influenced, to a greater or lesser degree, by the blues.
My brother has a master's degree from Harvard.
She has a degree in Biochemistry from Queen's University.
a four-year degree course
I'm hoping to do a chemistry degree.
murder in the first degree (= of the most serious kind)
first-degree murder
third-degree (= very serious) burns
the dehumanizing effects of poverty and squalor
Runners can dehydrate very quickly in this heat.
the dehydrating effects of alcohol
to suffer from dehydration
Drink lots of water to avoid becoming dehydrated.
the deification of medieval kings
She just grunted, not deigning to look up from the page.
Greek/Roman/Hindu deities
I had a strong sense of déjà vu as I entered the room.
She looked so dejected when she lost the game.
Congress delegates rejected the proposals.
The conference was attended by delegates from 56 countries.
Some managers find it difficult to delegate.
The job had to be delegated to an assistant.
I've been delegated to organize the Christmas party.
in a state of dilapidation
Commuters will face long delays on the roads today.
We apologize for the delay in answering your letter.
a delay of two hours/a two-hour delay
There's no time for delay.
Report it to the police without delay (= immediately).
Don't delay—call us today!
The judge will delay his verdict until he receives medical reports on the offender.
She's suffering a delayed reaction (= a reaction that did not happen immediately) to the shock.
He delayed telling her the news, waiting for the right moment.
Thousands of commuters were delayed for over an hour.
The government is accused of using delaying tactics (= deliberately doing sth to delay a process, decision, etc.).
The reorganization will involve delayering.
the managers who survived delayering
The point of delayering is to create flatter management structures.
the delectable smell of freshly baked bread
his delectable body
the Dutch delegation to the United Nations
a delegation of teachers
delegation of authority/decision-making
Your name has been deleted from the list.
This command deletes files from the directory.
(BrE) Mr/Mrs/Ms ( delete as appropriate)
He made several deletions to the manuscript.
a deliberate act of vandalism
The speech was a deliberate attempt to embarrass the government.
She spoke in a slow and deliberate way.
The jury deliberated for five days before finding him guilty.
They deliberated (on) whether to continue with the talks.
She's been deliberately ignoring him all day.
He packed up his possessions slowly and deliberately.
After ten hours of deliberation, the jury returned a verdict of 'not guilty'.
The deliberations of the committee are completely confidential.
She signed her name with great deliberation.
the delicacy of the fabric
the delicacy of his touch
She handled the situation with great sensitivity and delicacy.
I need to talk to you about a matter of some delicacy.
local delicacies
delicate china teacups
The eye is one of the most delicate organs of the body.
the delicate ecological balance of the rainforest
Babies have very delicate skin.
a cool wash cycle for delicate fabrics
a delicate child/constitution
his delicate hands
the delicate mechanisms of a clock
I admired your delicate handling of the situation.
a delicate problem
The delicate surgical operation took five hours.
a delicate fragrance/flavour
a river scene painted in delicate watercolours
He stepped delicately over the broken glass.
delicately balanced flavours
Who cooked this? It's delicious.
the delicious coolness of the breeze
deliciously creamy soup
a feeling of sheer/pure delight
The children squealed with delight when they saw the puppy.
She won the game easily, to the delight of all her fans.
He takes (great) delight in (= enjoys) proving others wrong.
This guitar is a delight to play.
This news will delight his fans all over the world.
a delighted smile
I'd be absolutely delighted to come.
I was delighted that you could stay.
She was delighted by/at the news of the wedding.
I was delighted with my presents.
a delightful book/restaurant/town
a delightful child
We had a wonderful time last night.
The weather was absolutely wonderful.
What a lovely day!(= the weather is very good)
It's been lovely having you here.
a delightful little fishing village
Our objectives need to be precisely delineated.
The ship's route is clearly delineated on the map.
an increase in juvenile delinquency
delinquent teenagers
a delinquent borrower
a delinquent loan
He became delirious and couldn't recognize people.
The crowds were delirious with joy.
fits of delirium
Do you have your milk delivered?
Leaflets have been delivered to every household.
We promise to deliver within 48 hours.
She is due to deliver a lecture on genetic engineering.
He delivered his lines confidently.
The jury finally delivered its verdict.
He has promised to finish the job by June and I am sure he will deliver.
She always delivers on her promises.
If you can't deliver improved sales figures, you're fired.
The team delivered a stunning victory last night.
They delivered their prisoner over to the invading army.
The baby was delivered by Caesarean section.
She was delivered of a healthy boy.
He delivered the blow (= hit sb hard) with all his force.
computer software deliverables
a delivery van
Please pay for goods on delivery (= when you receive them).
Allow 28 days for delivery.
Is there a postal/mail delivery on Saturdays?
(formal) When can you take delivery of (= be available to receive) the car?
(figurative) the delivery of public services
an easy/difficult delivery
a delivery room/ward (= in a hospital, etc.)
The beautiful poetry was ruined by her poor delivery.
a fast delivery
a delphic utterance
the Nile Delta
You poor deluded creature.
He's deluding himself if he thinks it's going to be easy.
Don't be deluded into thinking that we are out of danger yet.
She had been deluding herself that he loved her.
a deluge of calls/complaints/letters
We have been deluged with applications for the job.
The campsite was deluged by a flash flood.
the delusions of the mentally ill
Don't go getting delusions of grandeur (= a belief that you are more important than you actually are).
a deluxe hotel
She delved in her handbag for a pen.
She had started to delve into her father's distant past.
a demand for higher pay
demands that the law on gun ownership should be changed
firms attempting to meet/satisfy their customers' demands (= to give them what they are asking for)
the demands of children/work
Flying makes enormous demands on pilots.
to meet the demand for a product
There's an increased demand for organic produce these days.
Demand is exceeding supply.
Good secretaries are always in demand.
Feed the baby on demand.
on-demand printing of books
The UN has demanded that all troops be withdrawn.
(BrE also ) They are demanding that all troops should be withdrawn.
I demand to see the manager.
'Who the hell are you?' he demanded angrily.
This sport demands both speed and strength.
The work is physically demanding.
a demanding boss/child
Plots of land have been demarcated by barbed wire.
It was hard to draw clear lines of demarcation between work and leisure.
social demarcations
I wouldn't demean myself by asking for charity.
Such images demean women.
He found it demeaning to work for his former employee.
He maintained a professional demeanour throughout.
I've been nearly demented with worry about you.
the merits and demerits of the scheme
You'll get three demerits if you're caught smoking on school grounds.
demigod
a demilitarized zone
The world's resources are rapidly diminishing.
His influence has diminished with time.
Our efforts were producing diminishing returns (= we achieved less although we spent more time or money).
I don't wish to diminish the importance of their contribution.
his imminent/sudden/sad demise
They all went on the demo.
I'll give you a demo.
a demo tape
He demoed the new program he had just created.
Can I demo the software before I buy it?
democracy
democratic
He was demobbed in 1946.
parliamentary democracy
the principles of democracy
Western democracies
I thought we were supposed to be living in a democracy.
the fight for justice and democracy
a democratic country
a democratic system
democratic government
democratic participation
a democratic decision
a democratic society
democratic reforms
the Democratic senator from Oregon
a democratically elected government
democratically controlled
The decision was taken democratically.
the social demography of Africa
the demographics of radio listeners
The products are designed to appeal to a young demographic.
the 18–30 demographic
demographic changes/trends/factors
The factory is due to be demolished next year.
The car had skidded across the road and demolished part of the wall.
A recent book has demolished this theory.
They demolished New Zealand 44–6 in the final.
The children demolished their burgers and chips.
The whole row of houses is scheduled for demolition.
His speech did a very effective demolition job on the government's proposals.
demons torturing the sinners in Hell
He skis like a demon.
the demons of jealousy
demonic forces
a demonic appearance
He was demonized by the right-wing press.
a demonstrable need
demonstrably unfair
These results demonstrate convincingly that our campaign is working.
Let me demonstrate to you some of the difficulties we are facing.
His sudden departure had demonstrated how unreliable he was.
The theories were demonstrated to be false.
It has been demonstrated that this drug is effective.
You need to demonstrate more self-control.
We want to demonstrate our commitment to human rights.
Her job involves demonstrating new educational software.
Let me demonstrate to you how it works.
students demonstrating against the war
They are demonstrating in favour of free higher education.
to take part in/go on a demonstration
to hold/stage a demonstration
mass demonstrations in support of the exiled leader
anti-government demonstrations
a peaceful/violent demonstration
We were given a brief demonstration of the computer's functions.
a practical demonstration
We provide demonstration of videoconferencing over the Internet.
a demonstration of the connection between the two sets of figures
a demonstration of how something that seems simple can turn out to be very complicated
a public demonstration of affection
a demonstration of support for the reforms
Some people are more demonstrative than others.
a demonstrative greeting
'This' and 'that' are demonstrative pronouns.
Constant criticism is enough to demoralize anybody.
The workers here seem very demoralized.
the demoralizing effects of unemployment
Failure can demotivate students.
At first she demurred, but then finally agreed.
They accepted without demur.
a demure young lady
a demure smile
a demure navy blouse with a white collar
a bear's/lion's den
a den of thieves
a drinking/gambling den
He thought of New York as a den of iniquity.
He would often retire to his den.
They made themselves a den in the woods.
dendritic cells
I didn't intend to denigrate her achievements.
the prisoner's repeated denials of the charges against him
The terrorists issued a denial of responsibility for the attack.
an official denial that there would be an election before the end of the year
the denial of basic human rights
The patient is still in denial.
to deny a claim/a charge/an accusation
The spokesman refused either to confirm or deny the reports.
She denied (that) there had been any cover-up.
There's no denying (the fact) that quicker action could have saved them.
It can't be denied that we need to devote more resources to this problem.
He denies attempting to murder his wife.
She denied all knowledge of the incident.
The department denies responsibility for what occurred.
They were denied access to the information.
Access to the information was denied to them.
15 denier tights
a denim jacket
polar bears, denizens of the frozen north
the denizens of the local pub
The loan was denominated in US dollars.
These payments are denominated as 'fees' rather than 'salary'.
Christians of all denominations attended the conference.
coins and banknotes of various denominations
A very high temperature often denotes a serious illness.
In this example 'X' denotes the time taken and 'Y' denotes the distance covered.
The red triangle denotes danger.
Here 'family' denotes mother, father and children.
She publicly denounced the government's handling of the crisis.
The project was denounced as a scandalous waste of public money.
They were denounced as spies.
Many people denounced their neighbours to the secret police.
a dense crowd/forest
areas of dense population
dense fog/smoke/fumes
How can you be so dense?
a dense piece of writing
Less dense substances move upwards to form a crust.
a densely populated area
densely covered/packed
population density
low density forest
the density of a gas
The back of the car was badly dented in the collision.
It seemed that nothing could dent his confidence.
a large dent in the car door
The lawyer's fees will make a dent in our finances.
dental disease/care/treatment/health
a dental appointment
dental records
(BrE) a dental surgery (= where a dentist sees patients)
an appointment at the dentist's
preventive dentistry
denture adhesive
hillsides denuded of trees
an angry denunciation of the government's policies
All parties joined in bitter denunciation of the terrorists.
(a) roll-on deodorant
Flights for Rome depart from Terminal 3.
She waited until the last of the guests had departed.
(NAmE) The train departed Amritsar at 6.15 p.m.
the departing president
He departed his job December 16.
Departing from her usual routine, she took the bus to work.
your dear departed brother
the Department of Health
the Treasury Department
a government/university, etc. department
the marketing/sales, etc. department
the children's department (= in a large store)
the English department
a departmental manager
His sudden departure threw the office into chaos.
Flights should be confirmed 48 hours before departure.
They had received no news of him since his departure from the island.
arrivals and departures
All departures are from Manchester.
the departure lounge/time/gate
the departures board
It was a radical departure from tradition.
Their latest single represents a new departure for the band.
Starting salary varies from £26 000 to £30 500, depending on experience.
He either resigned or was sacked, depending on who you talk to.
'Is he coming?' 'That depends. He may not have the time.'
I don't know if we can help—it all depends.
I might not go. It depends how tired I am.
'Your job sounds fun.' 'It depends what you mean by 'fun'.'
I shouldn't be too late. But it depends if the traffic's bad.
He was the sort of person you could depend on.
He knew he could depend upon her to deal with the situation.
Depend upon it (= you can be sure) we won't give up.
Can we depend on you coming in on Sunday?
(formal) You can depend on his coming in on Sunday.
(ironic) You can depend on her to be (= she always is) late.
The community depends on the shipping industry for its survival.
I don't want to depend too much on my parents.
Does the quality of teaching depend on class size?
It would depend on the circumstances.
Whether we need more food depends on how many people turn up.
It depends what you mean by 'hostile'.
It depends on how you define the term 'hostile'.
his dependence on his parents
Our relationship was based on mutual dependence.
the dependence of Europe on imported foods
financial/economic dependence
drug/alcohol dependence
the close dependence of soil and landforms
financial dependency
Their aim is to reduce people's dependency on the welfare state.
the dependency culture (= a way of life in which people depend too much on money from the government)
a woman with several dependent children
You can't be dependent on your parents all your life.
The festival is heavily dependent on sponsorship for its success.
to be dependent on drugs
A child's development is dependent on many factors.
The price is dependent on how many extras you choose.
a painting depicting the Virgin and Child
The artist had depicted her lying on a bed.
The novel depicts French society in the 1930s.
The advertisements depict smoking as glamorous and attractive.
They object to the movie's depiction of gay people.
depilatory creams
Food supplies were severely depleted.
ozone depletion
the depletion of fish stocks
a deplorable incident
They were living in the most deplorable conditions.
The acting was deplorable.
They behaved deplorably.
deplorably high/low/bad
Like everyone else, I deplore and condemn this killing.
2 000 troops were deployed in the area.
At least 5 000 missiles were deployed along the border.
to deploy arguments/resources
Whole stretches of land were laid waste and depopulated.
Several of the asylum seekers now face deportation.
a deportation order
lessons for young ladies in deportment and etiquette
The president was deposed in a military coup.
They normally ask you to pay $100 (as a) deposit.
(BrE) We've put down a 5% deposit on the house.
to pay a deposit
Deposits can be made at any branch.
All the other candidates lost their deposits.
mineral/gold/coal deposits
The rain left a deposit of mud on the windows.
fatty deposits in the arteries of the heart
She deposited a pile of books on my desk.
(informal) I was whisked off in a taxi and deposited outside the hotel.
Sand was deposited which hardened into sandstone.
Millions were deposited in Swiss bank accounts.
Guests may deposit their valuables in the hotel safe.
marine/river deposition
the deposition of the King
an arms depot
In my view this book would deprave young children.
This is the work of a depraved mind.
a life of depravity
a deprecating comment
New cars start to depreciate as soon as they are on the road.
Shares continued to depreciate on the stock markets today.
The bank depreciates PCs over a period of five years.
I had no intention of depreciating your contribution.
currency depreciation
the depreciation of fixed assets
Wet weather always depresses me.
It depresses me to see so many young girls smoking.
The recession has depressed the housing market.
to depress wages/prices
to depress the clutch pedal (= when driving)
She felt very depressed about the future.
an attempt to bring jobs to depressed areas
depressed prices
a depressing sight/thought/experience
Looking for a job these days can be very depressing.
a depressingly familiar experience
clinical depression
She suffered from severe depression after losing her job.
There was a feeling of gloom and depression in the office when the news of the job cuts was announced.
The country was in the grip of (an) economic depression.
the great Depression of the 1930s
Rainwater collects in shallow depressions on the ground.
depressive illness
neglected children suffering from social deprivation
sleep deprivation
the deprivation of war (= the suffering caused by not having enough of some things)
They were imprisoned and deprived of their basic rights.
Why should you deprive yourself of such simple pleasures?
a deprived childhood/background/area
economically/emotionally/socially deprived
They were too poor to buy shoes for the kids.
socially disadvantaged sections of the community
It's a charity that provides help for needy children.
Thousands of impoverished peasants are desperate to move to the cities.
poor/needy children/families
He died penniless in Paris.
I was always hard up as a student.
What's the depth of the water here?
Water was found at a depth of 30 metres.
They dug down to a depth of two metres.
Many dolphins can dive to depths of 200 metres.
The oil well extended several hundreds of feet in depth.
the depth of a cut/wound/crack
The depth of the shelves is 30 centimetres.
the depth of her love
a writer of great wisdom and depth
a job that doesn't require any great depth of knowledge
His ideas lack depth.
the depths of the ocean
to live in the depths of the country (= a long way from a town)
in the depths of winter (= when it is coldest)
She was in the depths of despair.
He gazed into the depths of her eyes.
Her paintings reveal hidden depths (= unknown and interesting things about her character).
Strong light will affect the depth of colour of your carpets and curtains.
I haven't looked at the report in depth yet.
an in-depth study
His latest novel plumbs the depths of horror and violence.
The team's poor performances plumbed new depths last night when they lost 10–2.
He was deputed to put our views to the committee.
I'm acting as deputy till the manager returns.
the deputy head of a school
Ms Green has asked me to deputize for her at the meeting.
The train derailed and plunged into the river.
(figurative) This latest incident could derail the peace process.
mentally deranged
a deranged attacker
He seemed to be on the verge of total derangement.
a local derby between the two North London sides
a derby match
a motorcycle derby
the Epsom Derby
the Kentucky Derby
deregulated financial markets
deregulatory reforms
derelict land/buildings/sites
derelicts living on the streets
industrial/urban dereliction
a house in a state of dereliction
The police officers were found guilty of serious dereliction of duty.
His views were derided as old-fashioned.
Her speech was greeted with howls of derision.
He became an object of universal derision.
She gave a short, derisive laugh.
They offered us a derisory £50 a week.
He derived great pleasure from painting.
The new drug is derived from fish oil.
a word of Greek derivation
'Happiness' is a derivative of 'happy'.
Crack is a highly potent and addictive derivative of cocaine.
a derivative design/style
derogatory remarks/comments
He threw himself around the stage like a whirling dervish.
a desalination plant
The plane began its descent to Heathrow.
(figurative) the country's swift descent into anarchy
There is a gradual descent to the sea.
to be of Scottish descent
He traces his line of descent from the Stuart kings.
to give a detailed/full description of the procedure
a brief/general description of the software
Police have issued a description of the gunman.
'Scared stiff' is an apt description of how I felt at that moment.
a personal pain that goes beyond description (= is too great to express in words)
the novelist's powers of description
boats of every description/all descriptions
Their money came from trade of some description.
medals, coins and things of that description
the descriptive passages in the novel
The term I used was meant to be purely descriptive (= not judging).
I'm not prepared to discuss this on the phone.
We need to discuss when we should go.
We briefly discussed buying a second car.
This topic will be discussed at greater length in the next chapter.
heart/liver/kidney, etc. disease
health measures to prevent the spread of disease
an infectious/contagious disease (= one that can be passed to sb very easily)
It is not known what causes the disease.
protection against sexually transmitted diseases
Greed is a disease of modern society.
desecrated graves
the desecration of a cemetery
(figurative) the desecration of the countryside by new roads
People are increasingly becoming desensitized to violence on television.
the Sahara Desert
Somalia is mostly desert.
burning desert sands
(figurative) a cultural desert (= a place without any culture)
She was deserted by her husband.
The villages had been deserted.
The owl seems to have deserted its nest.
Large numbers of soldiers deserted as defeat became inevitable.
Why did you desert teaching for politics?
Her courage seemed to desert her for a moment.
She felt betrayed by her husband's desertion.
The army was badly affected by desertions.
deserted streets
a deserted village
deserted wives
The family of the victim said that the killer had got his just deserts when he was jailed for life.
You deserve a rest after all that hard work.
The report deserves careful consideration.
One player in particular deserves a mention.
What have I done to deserve this?
They didn't deserve to win.
He deserves to be locked up for ever for what he did.
Several other points deserve mentioning.
The restaurant is deservedly popular.
He has just been chosen for the top job, and deservedly so.
to give money to a deserving cause
This family is one of the most deserving cases.
an issue deserving of attention
The basic design of the car is very similar to that of earlier models.
special new design features
The magazine will appear in a new design from next month.
a course in art and design
a design studio
the design and development of new products
designs for aircraft
new and original designs
floral/abstract/geometric designs
The tiles come in a huge range of colours and designs.
It happened—whether by accident or design —that the two of them were left alone after all the others had gone.
It is all part of his grand design.
Rumours spread that the Duke had designs on the crown (= wanted to make himself king).
to design a car/a dress/an office
a badly designed kitchen
They asked me to design a poster for the campaign.
Could you design us a poster?
We need to design a new syllabus for the third year.
The method is specifically designed for use in small groups.
This course is primarily designed as an introduction to the subject.
The programme is designed to help people who have been out of work for a long time.
This area has been designated (as) a National Park.
Several pupils were designated as having moderate or severe learning difficulties.
a designated nature reserve
designated seats for the elderly
The director is allowed to designate his/her successor.
Who has she designated (as) her deputy?
the man designated to succeed the president
The different types are designated by the letters A, B and C.
an interview with the director designate
in a state of déshabillé
Many people in the city prefer desi food to the type that is sold by foreign fast food chains.
a desi film
desi ghee
Modern consumers weren't attracted by the desi images of rural life shown in the adverts.
treeless and desiccated soil
The district is under consideration for designation as a conservation area.
Her official designation is Financial Controller.
a fashion/jewellery, etc. designer
an industrial designer
designer jeans
designer labels
designer water
He had a trendy haircut, an earring and designer stubble (= a short beard, grown for two or three days and thought to look fashionable).
The plane disintegrated as it fell into the sea.
The authority of the central government was rapidly disintegrating.
the gradual disintegration of traditional values
She chatted for a few minutes about the qualities she considered desirable in a secretary.
Such measures are desirable, if not essential.
The house has many desirable features.
highly desirable
(BrE) It is desirable that interest rates should be reduced.
(NAmE) It is desirable that interest rates be reduced.
It is no longer desirable for adult children to live with their parents.
(formal) No one questions the desirability of cheaper fares.
enough money to satisfy all your desires
a strong desire for power
She felt an overwhelming desire to return home.
(formal) I have no desire (= I do not want) to discuss the matter further.
(formal) He has expressed a desire to see you.
She felt a surge of love and desire for him.
When she agreed to marry him he felt he had achieved his heart's desire.
We all desire health and happiness.
The house had everything you could desire.
The medicine did not achieve the desired effect.
Fewer people desire to live in the north of the country.
He still desired her.
At that point Franco was desirous of prolonging the war.
They agreed to desist from the bombing campaign.
He used to be a pilot but now he has a desk job.
the check-in desk
the reception desk
the sports desk
a bleak and desolate landscape
She had been desolated by the death of her friend.
a scene of utter desolation
the dissolution of barriers of class and race
Salt dissolves in water.
Heat gently until the sugar dissolves.
Dissolve the tablet in water.
Their marriage was dissolved in 1999.
The election was announced and parliament was dissolved.
When the ambulance had gone, the crowd dissolved.
His calm response dissolved her anger.
When the teacher looked up, the children dissolved into giggles.
Every time she heard his name, she dissolved into tears.
a new detergent that dissolves stains
All the original calcium had dissolved away.
She uttered a cry of despair.
A deep sense of despair overwhelmed him.
He gave up the struggle in despair.
One harsh word would send her into the depths of despair.
Eventually, driven to despair, he threw himself under a train.
Don't despair! We'll think of a way out of this.
I despair of him; he can't keep a job for more than six months.
They'd almost despaired of ever having children.
a despairing cry/look/sigh
With every day that passed he became ever more despairing.
She looked despairingly at the mess.
In desperation, she called Louise and asked for her help.
There was a note of desperation in his voice.
an act of sheer desperation
The prisoners grew increasingly desperate.
Stores are getting desperate after two years of poor sales.
Somewhere out there was a desperate man, cold, hungry, hunted.
I heard sounds of a desperate struggle in the next room.
a desperate bid for freedom
She clung to the edge in a desperate attempt to save herself.
His increasing financial difficulties forced him to take desperate measures.
Doctors were fighting a desperate battle to save the little girl's life.
He was so desperate for a job he would have done anything.
(informal) I'm desperate for a cigarette.
I was absolutely desperate to see her.
The children are in desperate need of love and attention.
They face a desperate shortage of clean water.
desperately ill/unhappy/lonely
He took a deep breath, desperately trying to keep calm.
They desperately wanted a child.
She looked desperately around for a weapon.
a despicable act/crime
I hate you! You're despicable.
She despised gossip in any form.
Her voice was shaking despite all her efforts to control it.
Despite applying for hundreds of jobs, he is still out of work.
She was good at physics despite the fact that she found it boring.
He had to laugh despite himself.
She was becoming increasingly despondent about the way things were going.
a mood of despondency
Life's not all gloom and despondency.
an enlightened despot (= one who tries to use his/her power in a good way)
despotic power/rule
What's for dessert?
a rich chocolate dessert
a dessert wine
(BrE) the dessert trolley (= a table on wheels from which you choose your dessert in a restaurant)
Terrorist attacks were threatening to destabilize the government.
The news had a destabilizing effect on the stock market.
popular holiday destinations like the Bahamas
to arrive at/reach your destination
Our luggage was checked all the way through to our final destination.
He was destined for a military career, like his father before him.
We seem destined never to meet.
goods destined for Poland
the destinies of nations
He wants to be in control of his own destiny.
I believe there's some force guiding us—call it God, destiny or fate.
When he died, his family was left completely destitute.
They seem destitute of ordinary human feelings.
homelessness and destitution
The building was completely destroyed by fire.
They've destroyed all the evidence.
Heat gradually destroys vitamin C.
You have destroyed my hopes of happiness.
Failure was slowly destroying him (= making him less and less confident and happy).
The injured horse had to be destroyed.
Sugar is the destroyer of healthy teeth.
the destruction of the rainforests
weapons of mass destruction
a tidal wave bringing death and destruction in its wake
The central argument is that capitalism sows the seeds of its own destruction (= creates the forces that destroy it).
the destructive power of modern weapons
the destructive effects of anxiety
I wandered about in a desultory fashion.
a desultory conversation
Det Insp (= Inspector) Cox
Detach the coupon and return it as soon as possible.
One of the panels had become detached from the main structure.
The skis should detach from the boot if you fall.
She detached herself from his embrace.
(figurative) I tried to detach myself from the reality of these terrible events.
a coat with a detachable hood
She wanted him to stop being so cool, so detached, so cynical.
a detached observer
He answered with an air of detachment.
She felt a sense of detachment from what was going on.
In judging these issues a degree of critical detachment is required.
a detachment of artillery
to suffer detachment of the retina
an expedition planned down to the last detail
He stood still, absorbing every detail of the street.
Tell me the main points now; leave the details till later.
This issue will be discussed in more detail in the next chapter.
The research has been carried out with scrupulous attention to detail.
He had an eye for detail (= noticed and remembered small details).
The fine detail of the plan has yet to be worked out.
Please supply the following details: name, age and sex.
Further details and booking forms are available on request.
They didn't give any details about the game.
'We had a terrible time—' 'Oh, spare me the details (= don't tell me any more).'
This is a detail from the 1844 Turner painting.
a huge picture with a lot of detail in it
I can't go into details now; it would take too long.
The brochure details all the hotels in the area and their facilities.
Several of the men were detailed to form a search party.
He got work for a while detailing cars.
a detailed description/analysis/study
He gave me detailed instructions on how to get there.
One man has been detained for questioning.
I'm sorry—he'll be late; he's been detained at a meeting.
The tests are designed to detect the disease early.
an instrument that can detect small amounts of radiation
Do I detect a note of criticism?
The first thing I noticed about the room was the smell.
Please note (that) the office will be closed on Monday.
Note that the prices are inclusive of VAT.
The tests are designed to detect the disease early.
Have you observed any changes lately?
The police observed a man enter the bank.
Police have appealed for anyone who witnessed the incident to contact them.
The noise is barely detectable by the human ear.
a smoke detector
crime prevention and detection
Last year the detection rate for car theft was just 13%.
Many problems, however, escape detection.
Early detection of cancers is vitally important.
Detective Inspector (Roger) Brown
detectives from the anti-terrorist squad
a detective story/novel
a sentence of 12 months' detention in a young offender institution
police powers of arrest and detention
allegations of torture and detention without trial
a detention camp
They can't give me (a) detention for this.
I told him I wasn't interested, but he wasn't deterred.
The high price of the service could deter people from seeking advice.
Hopefully his punishment will act as a deterrent to others.
the country's nuclear deterrents (= nuclear weapons that are intended to stop an enemy from attacking)
a deterrent effect
Her health deteriorated rapidly, and she died shortly afterwards.
deteriorating weather conditions
The discussion quickly deteriorated into an angry argument.
a serious deterioration in relations between the two countries
During the third month of pregnancy the sex of the child becomes determinable.
a sentence with a determinate meaning
fierce/grim/dogged determination
He fought the illness with courage and determination.
They had survived by sheer determination.
I admire her determination to get it right.
factors influencing the determination of future policy
Both methods rely on the accurate determination of the pressure of the gas.
An inquiry was set up to determine the cause of the accident.
We set out to determine exactly what happened that night.
It was determined that she had died of natural causes.
Age and experience will be determining factors in our choice of candidate.
Upbringing plays an important part in determining a person's character.
A date for the meeting has yet to be determined.
The court determined (that) the defendant should pay the legal costs.
They determined to start early.
I'm determined to succeed.
a determined effort to stop smoking
The proposal had been dropped in the face of determined opposition.
They detested each other on sight.
All terrorist crime is detestable, whoever the victims.
Two other bombs failed to detonate.
We had to make a detour around the flooded fields.
It's well worth making a detour to see the village.
The President detoured to Chicago for a special meeting.
a detox clinic
He's gone into detox.
a detoxification unit
He was determined not to let anything detract from his enjoyment of the trip.
He was engrossed in his job to the detriment of his health.
the sun's detrimental effect on skin
The policy will be detrimental to the peace process.
organic detritus from fish and plants
the detritus of everyday life
the deuce of clubs
What the deuce is he doing?
The man's a deuced fool!
It's deuced awkward.
Work in the home is often ignored and devalued.
There has been a further small devaluation against the dollar.
The bomb devastated much of the old part of the city.
His family is absolutely devastated.
a devastating explosion/fire/cyclone
Oil spills are having a devastating effect on coral reefs in the ocean.
He received devastating injuries in the accident.
It will be a devastating blow to the local community if the factory closes.
the devastating news that her father was dead
his devastating performance in the 100 metres
Her smile was devastating.
a devastating attack on the President's economic record
a devastatingly handsome man
The bomb caused widespread devastation.
The child is developing normally.
The place has rapidly developed from a small fishing community into a thriving tourist resort.
She developed the company from nothing.
The company develops and markets new software.
Her son developed asthma when he was two.
The car developed engine trouble and we had to stop.
A crisis was rapidly developing in the Gulf.
We need more time to see how things develop before we take action.
He's developed a real flair for management.
Their relationship has developed over a number of years.
The site is being developed by a French company.
She develops the theme more fully in her later books.
I had the film developed yesterday.
financial aid to less developed countries
The average citizen in the developed world uses over 155kg of paper per year.
children with highly developed problem-solving skills
a baby's development in the womb
the development of basic skills such as literacy and numeracy
career development
the development of vaccines against tropical diseases
developments in aviation technology
This piece of equipment is an exciting new development.
the latest developments in the war
Are there further developments in the investigation?
a commercial/business/housing development
He bought the land for development.
property developers
a software developer
developing countries/nations/economies
The product is still at a developmental stage.
developmental psychology
deviant behaviour/sexuality
sexual deviants
a study of social deviance and crime
The bus had to deviate from its usual route because of a road closure.
He never deviated from his original plan.
deviation from the previously accepted norms
sexual deviation
a deviation from the plan
a compass deviation of 5° (= from true north)
a water-saving device
devices such as tablet PCs and mobile phones
electrical labour-saving devices around the home
A powerful device exploded outside the station.
the world's first atomic device
Sending advertising by email is very successful as a marketing device.
The report was a device used to hide rather than reveal problems.
The cells began to divide rapidly.
A sentence can be divided up into meaningful segments.
Jack divided up the rest of the cash.
We divided the work between us.
He divides his energies between politics and business.
Can it ever be right to divide a mother from her child?
A fence divides off the western side of the grounds.
Where the path divides, keep right.
The issue has divided the government.
30 divided by 6 is 5 (= 30 ÷ 6 = 5).
5 divides into 30 6 times.
The country was split down the middle over the strike (= half supported it, half did not).
the North/South divide
the divide between Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland
They believed she was possessed by devils.
a naughty little devil
I miss the old devil, now that he's gone.
She's off to Greece for a month—lucky devil!
These berries are the devil to pick because they're so small.
She blamed the crimes on the local jobless teenagers. 'The devil makes work for idle hands,' she would say.
We ran like the devil.
Well, speak of the devil—here's Alice now!
What the devil do you think you're doing?
There'll be hell to pay when he finds out.
Often the interviewer will need to play devil's advocate in order to get a discussion going.
a devilish conspiracy
He was handsome, with a devilish charm.
a devilishly hot day
a devious politician
He got rich by devious means.
a devious route from the airport
A new system has been devised to control traffic in the city.
cell division
a fair division of time and resources
the division of labour between the sexes
the division of the population into age groups
the division sign (÷)
There are deep divisions in the party over the war.
the work of healing the divisions within society
divisions between rich and poor
social/class divisions
the company's sales division
the first division/division one
a first-division team
the Guards Armoured Division
A hedge forms the division between their land and ours.
The Bill was read without a division.
The letter was devoid of warmth and feeling.
The central government devolved most tax-raising powers to the regional authorities.
devolved responsibility
a system of devolved government
She devoted herself to her career.
I could only devote two hours a day to the work.
a devoted son/friend/fan
a devotee of science fiction
devotees of Krishna
His devotion to his wife and family is touching.
her devotion to duty
Her devotion to the job left her with very little free time.
She devoured everything she could lay her hands on: books, magazines and newspapers.
Flames devoured the house.
a devout Christian/Muslim
a devoutly Catholic region
She devoutly (= very strongly) hoped he was telling the truth.
The grass was wet with early morning dew.
You need manual dexterity to be good at video games.
mental/verbal dexterity
DI Ross
carbon dioxide
She's diabetic.
a diabetic patient
diabetic complications
a diabetic diet
The traffic was diabolical.
diacritical marks
the mother-child dyad
The test is used to diagnose a variety of diseases.
The illness was diagnosed as cancer.
He has recently been diagnosed with angina.
He was diagnosed (as) a diabetic when he was 64.
He was diagnosed (a) diabetic.
diagnosis of lung cancer
They are waiting for the doctor's diagnosis.
An accurate diagnosis was made after a series of tests.
to carry out diagnostic assessments/tests
specific conditions which are diagnostic of AIDS
diagonal stripes
Walk diagonally across the field to the far corner and then turn left.
a diagram of the wiring system
The results are shown in diagram 2.
an alarm clock with a luminous dial
Check the tyre pressure on the dial.
He dialled the number and waited.
Dial 0033 for France.
Her eyes dilated with fear.
dilated pupils/nostrils
Red wine can help to dilate blood vessels.
the Yorkshire dialect
international dialling codes
The novel has long descriptions and not much dialogue.
dialogues for language learners
kidney/renal dialysis
a dialysis machine
diamanté earrings
the diameter of a tree trunk
The dome is 42.3 metres in diameter.
a lens magnifying 300 diameters (= making sth look 300 times larger than it really is)
He's the diametrical opposite of his brother.
We hold diametrically opposed views.
a ring with a diamond in it
a diamond ring/necklace
She was wearing her diamonds (= jewellery with diamonds in it).
The lights shone like diamonds.
the ten of diamonds
You must play a diamond if you have one.
a diaper rash
a desk diary
I'll make a note of our next meeting in my diary.
Do you keep a diary (= write one regularly)?
Samuel Pepys, the famous 17th century diarist
Symptoms include diarrhoea and vomiting.
an air disaster
environmental disasters
Thousands died in the disaster.
a natural disaster (= one that is caused by nature)
Losing your job doesn't have to be such a disaster.
Disaster struck when the wheel came off.
financial disaster
Letting her organize the party is a recipe for disaster (= something that is likely to go badly wrong).
As a teacher, he's a disaster.
The play's first night was a total disaster.
He launched a bitter diatribe against the younger generation.
a pair of dice
to roll/throw/shake the dice
We played dice all night.
'Did you get that job?' 'No dice.'
He has always felt that the dice were loaded against him in life.
diced carrots
a disciple of the economist John Maynard Keynes
Where the dickens did he go?
cute as the dickens
a Dickensian slum
a dicky heart
He won't say a dicky bird, but we think he knows who did it.
Cook is credited with discovering Hawaii.
Scientists around the world are working to discover a cure for AIDS.
Police discovered a large stash of drugs while searching the house.
We discovered this beach while we were sailing around the island.
He was discovered hiding in a shed.
She was discovered dead at her home in Leeds.
I've just discovered hang-gliding!
It was a shock to discover (that) he couldn't read.
We never did discover why she gave up her job.
It was later discovered that the diaries were a fraud.
He was later discovered to be seriously ill.
The singer was discovered while still at school.
the discoverer of penicillin
the discovery of antibiotics in the 20th century
The discovery of a child's body in the river has shocked the community.
the discovery of new talent in the art world
Researchers in this field have made some important new discoveries.
He saw life as a voyage of discovery.
She was shocked by the discovery that he had been unfaithful.
The drug is not a new discovery—it's been known about for years.
He dictated a letter to his secretary.
They are in no position to dictate terms (= tell other people what to do).
What right do they have to dictate how we live our lives?
When we take our vacations is very much dictated by Greg's work schedule.
It's generally your job that dictates where you live now.
The social conventions of the day dictated that she should remain at home with her parents.
She refused to be dictated to by anyone.
to follow the dictates of fashion
a dictatorial ruler
a dictatorial regime
dictatorial behaviour
clear diction
a Spanish-English dictionary
a dictionary of mathematics
a topic/subject for discussion
After considerable discussion, they decided to accept our offer.
The plans have been under discussion (= being talked about) for a year now.
Discussions are still taking place between the two leaders.
We had a discussion with them about the differences between Britain and the US.
Her article is a discussion of the methods used in research.
Did you ever hear anything like it?
didactic art
She doesn't know diddly about it.
Is Diddums OK?
a diddy little camera
Didi taught me how to read.
Didi, could you help me with this bag?
Her husband died suddenly last week.
That plant's died.
to die of/from cancer
He died for his beliefs.
I'll never forget it to my dying day (= until I die).
(informal) I nearly died when I saw him there (= it was very embarrassing).
to die a violent/painful/natural, etc. death
She died young.
At least they died happy.
He died a poor man.
The old customs are dying.
His secret died with him (= he never told anyone).
The words died on my lips (= I stopped speaking).
The engine spluttered and died.
My car just died on me.
I nearly died laughing when she said that.
She was wearing a dress to die for.
People were dropping like flies in the intense heat.
The sound of their laughter died away.
The flames finally died down.
When the applause had died down, she began her speech.
This species has nearly died out because its habitat is being destroyed.
diehard supporters of the exiled king
A few diehards are trying to stop the reforms.
a diesel engine (= one that burns diesel )
diesel cars/locomotives/trains
Our new car is a diesel.
dietetic advice
There are no significant differences between the education systems of the two countries.
He was studying the complex similarities and differences between humans and animals.
There's no difference in the results.
I can never tell the difference (= distinguish) between the twins.
She noticed a marked difference in the children on her second visit.
There's a world of difference between liking someone and loving them.
What a difference! You look great with your hair like that.
There's not much difference in price between the two computers.
There's an age difference of six years between the boys (= one is six years older than the other).
I'll lend you £500 and you'll have to find the difference (= the rest of the money that you need).
We measured the difference in temperature.
We have our differences, but she's still my sister.
Why don't you settle your differences and be friends again?
There was a difference of opinion over who had won.
The rain didn't make much difference to the game.
Your age shouldn't make any difference to whether you get the job or not.
Changing schools made a big difference to my life.
What difference will it make if he knows or not?
I don't think it makes a lot of difference what colour it is (= it is not important).
'Shall we go on Friday or Saturday?' 'It makes no difference (to me).'
A few kind words at the right time make all the difference.
'That's not a xylophone, it's a glockenspiel.' 'Same difference.'
The traditional backpack with a difference—it's waterproof.
American English is significantly different from British English.
(BrE) It's very different to what I'm used to.
(NAmE) He saw he was no different than anybody else.
It's different now than it was a year ago.
People often give very different accounts of the same event.
My son's terribly untidy; my daughter's no different.
Paul's very different from/to his brother.
This visit is very different from/to last time.
Your trains are different than ours.
You look different than before.
She looked different than (what) I'd expected.
She offered us five different kinds of cake.
The programme was about customs in different parts of the country.
They are sold in many different colours.
I looked it up in three different dictionaries.
'Did you enjoy the play?' 'Well, it was certainly different!'
Boys and girls may behave differently.
The male bird has a differently shaped head.
He says he doesn't care about what the critics write, but I know different.
They hold differing views.
French differs from English in this respect.
French and English differ in this respect.
Ideas on childcare may differ considerably between the parents.
I have to differ with you on that.
Medical opinion differs as to how to treat the disease.
wage/pay/income differentials
the differential treatment of prisoners based on sex and social class
differential rates of pay
It's difficult to differentiate between the two varieties.
I can't differentiate one variety from another.
The male's yellow beak differentiates it from the female.
a difficult problem/task/exam
It's difficult for them to get here much before seven.
It's really difficult to read your writing.
Your writing is really difficult to read.
She finds it very difficult to get up early.
to be in a difficult position/situation
My boss is making life very difficult for me.
13 is a difficult age.
a difficult child/customer/boss
Don't pay any attention to her—she's just being difficult.
You'll have a job convincing them that you're right.
He had a hard job to make himself heard.
the difficulties of English syntax
children with severe learning difficulties
We've run into difficulties/difficulty with the new project.
He got into difficulties while swimming and had to be rescued.
The bank is in difficulty/difficulties.
It was a time fraught with difficulties and frustration.
I had considerable difficulty (in) persuading her to leave.
I had no difficulty (in) making myself understood.
The changes were made with surprisingly little difficulty.
He spoke slowly and with great difficulty.
We found the house without difficulty.
They discussed the difficulty of studying abroad.
varying levels of difficulty
questions of increasing difficulty
a diffident manner/smile
He was modest and diffident about his own success.
She overcame her natural diffidence and spoke with great frankness.
diffuse light
a diffuse community
a diffuse style of writing
The problem is how to diffuse power without creating anarchy.
Technologies diffuse rapidly.
The moon was fuller than the night before, but the light was diffused by cloud.
to dig for coal/gold/Roman remains
They dug deeper and deeper but still found nothing.
I think I'll do some digging in the garden.
to dig a ditch/grave/hole/tunnel
(BrE) I've been digging the garden.
I'll dig some potatoes for lunch.
I dug around in my bag for a pen.
They dug in their heels and would not lower the price.
Help yourselves, everybody! Dig in!
There is nothing we can do except dig in and wait.
The manure should be well dug in.
He dug his fork into the steak.
She dug into her bowl of pasta.
His fingers dug painfully into my arm.
Will you dig a little into his past and see what you find?
She dug her hands deeper into her pockets.
More than a dozen people were dug out of the avalanche alive.
I went to the attic and dug out Grandad's medals.
They are digging up the football field to lay a new surface.
An old Roman vase was dug up here last month.
Tabloid newspapers love to dig up scandal.
She gave him a dig in the ribs.
He kept making sly little digs at me.
to have a dig at sb/sth
to go on a dig
an archaeological dig
Humans cannot digest plants such as grass.
You should allow a little time after a meal for the food to digest.
He paused, waiting for her to digest the information.
a monthly news digest
to have a good/poor digestion
the digestive system/tract
digestive problems
a packet of chocolate digestives
The number 57306 contains five digits.
a four-digit number
a digital camera
digital terrestrial and digital satellite broadcasting
born digital (= not converted from print or analogue form)
a digital clock/watch
digitally remastered audio
How long have you had digital?
With digital you can choose the camera angle you want.
Digital publishing challenges traditional concepts of books.
a digitized map
a dignified person/manner/voice
Throughout his trial he maintained a dignified silence.
The mayor was there to dignify the celebrations.
I'm not going to dignify his comments by reacting to them.
She accepted the criticism with quiet dignity.
the dignity of work
The terminally ill should be allowed to die with dignity.
It's difficult to preserve your dignity when you have no job and no home.
After several digressions, he finally got to the point.
an EU diktat from Brussels
government by diktat
The government has been dilatory in dealing with the problem of unemployment.
to face a dilemma
to be in a dilemma
a dilettante artist
She shows great diligence in her schoolwork.
a diligent student/worker
dill pickles
The paint can be diluted with water to make a lighter shade.
Large classes dilute the quality of education that children receive.
the dilution of sewage
This is a serious dilution of their election promises.
a dilute acid/solution
the dim glow of the fire in the grate
This light is too dim to read by.
a dim room/street
the dim outline of a house in the moonlight
I could see a dim shape in the doorway.
His eyesight is getting dim.
dim memories
She had a dim recollection of the visit.
(humorous) in the dim and distant past
He's very dim.
Her future career prospects look dim.
It took a while for his eyes to adjust to the dimness.
She took a dim view of my suggestion.
The lights in the theatre dimmed as the curtain rose.
Her passion for dancing never dimmed over the years.
a dim-witted child
We measured the dimensions of the kitchen.
computer design tools that work in three dimensions
a problem of considerable dimensions
Her job added a new dimension to her life.
the social dimension of unemployment
He was found not guilty of murder on the grounds of diminished responsibility.
the diminution of political power
a diminution in population growth
She was a diminutive figure beside her husband.
'Nick' is a common diminutive of 'Nicholas'.
a dimly lit room
I was dimly aware (= only just aware) of the sound of a car in the distance.
I did remember, but only dimly.
She had a dimple which appeared when she smiled.
a pane of glass with a dimple pattern
a dimpled chin
The children were making an awful din.
the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty
dynastic history
We dined with my parents at a restaurant in town.
The firm spent thousands wining and dining potential clients.
a restaurant capable of seating 100 diners
a roadside diner
I got a ding in my rear fender.
The lift came to a halt with a loud 'ding'.
The computer just dings when I press a key.
I dinged my passenger door.
(figurative) My department got dinged by the budget cuts.
I rang the doorbell. Ding-dong! No answer.
They were having a real ding-dong on the doorstep.
a sailing dinghy
a dingy room/hotel
dingy curtains/clothes
What a dinky little hat!
I grew up in a dinky little town that didn't even have a movie theater.
If you're dinkum, I'll help you.
It's time for dinner.
When do you have dinner?
What time do you serve dinner?
Let's invite them to dinner tomorrow.
What shall we have for dinner tonight?
It's your turn to cook dinner.
She didn't eat much dinner.
I never eat a big dinner.
Christmas dinner
a three-course dinner
I'd like to take you out to dinner tonight.
(BrE) school dinners (= meals provided at school in the middle of the day)
a cream tea
What time do the kids have their tea?
The club's annual dinner will be held on 3 June.
conversation at the dinner table
He dipped the brush into the paint.
Dip your hand in to see how hot the water is.
The fruit had been dipped in chocolate.
The sun dipped below the horizon.
Sales for this quarter have dipped from 38.7 million to 33 million.
The road dipped suddenly as we approached the town.
The plane dipped its wings.
She dipped into her purse and took out some coins.
I have only had time to dip into the report.
We took out a loan for the car because we didn't want to dip into our savings.
Let's go for a dip before breakfast.
a sharp dip in profits
a dip in the road
Puddles had formed in the dips.
A brief dip into history serves to confirm this view.
He gave a dip of his head.
a two-year diploma course
She is taking a diploma in management studies.
a High School diploma
international diplomacy
Diplomacy is better than war.
a diplomatic crisis
Attempts are being made to settle the dispute by diplomatic means.
to break off/establish/restore diplomatic relations with a country
a diplomatic answer
The country remained diplomatically isolated.
'Why don't we take a break for coffee?' she suggested diplomatically.
living in dire poverty
dire warnings/threats
Such action may have dire consequences.
We're in dire need of your help.
The firm is in dire straits (= in a very difficult situation) and may go bankrupt.
The acting was dire.
He drove her directly to her hotel.
She looked directly at us.
He's directly responsible to the boss.
We have not been directly affected by the cuts.
directly opposite/below/ahead
They remain directly opposed to these new plans.
She left directly after the show.
Tell them I'll be there directly.
I went home directly I had finished work.
They are in direct contact with the hijackers.
His death was a direct result of your action.
We are looking for somebody with direct experience of this type of work.
This information has a direct bearing on (= it is closely connected with) the case.
the most direct route/course
a direct flight (= a flight that does not stop)
There's a direct train to Leeds (= it may stop at other stations but you do not have to change trains).
a direct hit (= a hit that is accurate and does not touch sth else first)
Protect your child from direct sunlight by using a sunscreen.
a direct answer/question
You'll have to get used to his direct manner.
That's the direct opposite of what you told me yesterday.
a direct quote (= one using a person's exact words)
a direct descendant of the country's first president
The machine directs a powerful beam at the affected part of the body.
Was that remark directed at me?
There are three main issues that we need to direct our attention to.
Most of his anger was directed against himself.
A new manager has been appointed to direct the project.
He was asked to take command and direct operations.
She prefers to act rather than direct.
The movie was directed by Steven Spielberg.
She now directs a large choir.
Could you direct me to the station?
A police officer was directing the traffic.
The police officers had been directed to search the building.
The judge directed that the mother be given custody of the children.
(BrE also ) The judge directed that the mother should be given custody of the children.
The company was ordered to pay compensation to its former employee.
'Come here at once!' she ordered.
He was told to sit down and wait.
Don't tell me what to do!
The letter instructed him to report to headquarters immediately.
The judge directed the jury to return a verdict of not guilty.
Direct any complaints to the Customer Services department.
We flew direct to Hong Kong.
The 10.40 goes direct to Leeds.
I prefer to deal with him direct.
We pay all our bills by direct debit.
In 'I met him in town', the word 'him' is the direct object.
Only direct speech should go inside inverted commas.
the managing director
an executive/non-executive director
He's on the board of directors.
the musical director
a regional director
the director of education
Tom went off in the direction of home.
She glanced in his direction.
The aircraft was flying in a northerly direction.
The road was blocked in both directions.
They hit a truck coming in the opposite direction.
Has the wind changed direction?
When the police arrived, the crowd scattered in all directions.
I lost all sense of direction (= I didn't know which way to go).
The exhibition provides evidence of several new directions in her work.
I am very unhappy with the direction the club is taking.
It's only a small improvement, but at least it's a step in the right direction.
Support came from an unexpected direction.
Let us approach the subject from a different direction.
We are looking for somebody with a clear sense of direction.
Once again her life felt lacking in direction.
Let's stop and ask for directions.
Simple directions for assembling the model are printed on the box.
All work was produced by the students under the direction of John Williams.
There is some clever direction and the film is very well shot.
a directional microphone/aerial
directional stability
The EU has issued a new set of directives on pollution.
They are seeking a central, directive role in national energy policy.
'What's that?' she asked with her usual directness.
the director general of the BBC
the environmental directorate
The film marks her directorial debut.
a telephone/trade directory
a directory of European Trade Associations
a dirigible balloon
His clothes were covered in dirt.
First remove any grease or dirt from the surface.
He picked up a handful of dirt and threw it at them.
Pack the dirt firmly round the plants.
They lived in a shack with a dirt floor.
Do you have any dirt on the new guy?
dog dirt
It was dirt cheap.
I got it dirt cheap.
a dirt-track race
dirty hands/clothes
a dirty mark
Try not to get too dirty!
I always get given the dirty jobs (= jobs that make you become dirty).
If your hands are dirty, go and wash them.
There were shelves full of dusty books.
It's absolutely filthy in here.
Don't you come in here with those muddy boots on!
soiled nappies/diapers
He hoped she wouldn't notice his grubby shirt cuffs.
a pair of paint-stained jeans
a dirty joke/book
He's got a dirty mind (= he often thinks about sex).
a dirty lie
She's a dirty player.
He's a great man for doing the dirty jobs (= jobs which are unpleasant because they involve being dishonest or mean to people).
a dirty brown carpet
I'd never do the dirty on my friends.
The candidate again got down and dirty with his rival.
The singer got down and dirty at the club last night and made headlines again.
He's not frightened of getting his hands dirty.
When I turned round he was pointing a dirty great gun at me.
a dirty tricks campaign
What a dirty trick to play!
dishonest
disagreeably
disadvantage
disappear
a physical/mental disability
people with severe learning disabilities
He qualifies for help on the grounds of disability.
mentally disabled
learning disabilities
The museum has special facilities for blind and partially sighted visitors.
He was disabled in a car accident.
a disabling condition
The burglars gained entry to the building after disabling the alarm.
physically/mentally disabled
severely disabled
He was born disabled.
facilities for disabled people
caring for the sick, elderly and disabled
The insurance policy covers sudden death or disablement.
a serious/severe/considerable disadvantage
One major disadvantage of the area is the lack of public transport.
There are disadvantages to the plan.
What's the main disadvantage?
I was at a disadvantage compared to the younger members of the team.
The fact that he didn't speak a foreign language put him at a distinct disadvantage.
I hope my lack of experience won't be to my disadvantage.
The advantages of the scheme far outweighed the disadvantages.
Many children in the class suffered severe social and economic disadvantage.
disadvantaged groups/children
a severely disadvantaged area
The deal will not be disadvantageous to your company.
Some disaffected members left to form a new party.
There are signs of growing disaffection amongst voters.
The local club has disaffiliated from the National Athletic Association.
Even friends disagree sometimes.
No, I disagree. I don't think it would be the right thing to do.
He disagreed with his parents on most things.
Some people disagree with this argument.
Few would disagree that students learn best when they are interested in the topic.
I'm sorry, I don't agree/I have to disagree with you there.
Well, actually, I'm not sure that that's true.
I don't think that is exactly right.
I wouldn't agree that that's the best solution.
I have to say that I don't find that argument very convincing.
I can't go along with that idea.
I take/see your point, but I don't think it would work in practice.
Actually, I think that would make the situation worse.
Actually, I'm not sure that's the best plan.
I understand where you're coming from, but I think we might want to take a different approach here.
I can see why you might feel that way, but I think we need to handle this differently.
I disagree with violent protests.
a disagreeable smell/experience/job
a disagreeable bad-tempered man
Disagreement arose about exactly how to plan the show.
disagreement on the method to be used
There is considerable disagreement over the safety of the treatment.
It was a source of disagreement between the two states.
There is disagreement among archaeologists as to the age of the sculpture.
They have had several disagreements with their neighbours.
The comparison shows considerable disagreement between theory and practice.
to disallow a claim/an appeal
The second goal was disallowed.
The plane disappeared behind a cloud.
Lisa watched until the train disappeared from view.
Her nervousness quickly disappeared once she was on stage.
The problem won't just disappear.
Our countryside is disappearing at an alarming rate.
I can never find a pen in this house. They disappear as soon as I buy them.
The child disappeared from his home some time after four.
the disappearance of many species of plants and animals from our planet
Police are investigating the disappearance of a young woman.
Keep looking—they can't just have vanished off the face of the earth.
Her decision to cancel the concert is bound to disappoint her fans.
I hate to disappoint you, but I'm just not interested.
The movie had disappointed her (= it wasn't as good as she had expected).
His latest novel does not disappoint.
The new government had soon disappointed the hopes of many of its supporters.
They were bitterly disappointed at the result of the game.
I was disappointed by the quality of the wine.
I'm disappointed in you—I really thought I could trust you!
I was very disappointed with myself.
He was disappointed to see she wasn't at the party.
I'm disappointed (that) it was sold out.
She was disappointed not to be chosen.
a disappointing result/performance
The outcome of the court case was disappointing for the family involved.
The room was disappointingly small.
Book early for the show to avoid disappointment.
To our great disappointment, it rained every day of the trip.
He found it difficult to hide his disappointment when she didn't arrive.
a bitter/major disappointment
That new restaurant was a big disappointment.
I always felt I was a disappointment to my father.
disapproval of his methods
to show/express disapproval
He shook his head in disapproval.
She looked at my clothes with disapproval.
She wants to be an actress, but her parents disapprove.
He strongly disapproved of the changes that had been made.
(NAmE) A solid majority disapproves the way the president is handling the controversy.
a disapproving glance/tone/look
He looked disapprovingly at the row of empty wine bottles.
Most of the rebels were captured and disarmed.
He disarmed her immediately by apologizing profusely.
nuclear disarmament
disarmament talks
a disarming smile
disarmingly frank
The peace talks broke up in disarray.
Our plans were thrown into disarray by her arrival.
We had to completely disassemble the engine to find the problem.
The concert ended and the crowd disassembled.
a disastrous harvest/fire/result
Lowering interest rates could have disastrous consequences for the economy.
How could everything go so disastrously wrong?
Many people have expressed their dissatisfaction with the arrangement.
dissatisfied customers
If you are dissatisfied with our service, please write to the manager.
They disavowed claims of a split in the party.
They set about disbanding the terrorist groups.
The committee formally disbanded in August.
He stared at me in disbelief.
To enjoy the movie you have to suspend your disbelief (= pretend to believe sth, even if it seems very unlikely).
Why should I disbelieve her story?
a disbelieving look/smile/laugh
the disbursement of funds
aid disbursements
He wears an identity disc around his neck.
This recording is available online or on disc.
He's been off work with a slipped disc (= one that has moved from its correct position, causing pain).
The room was littered with discarded newspapers.
He had discarded his jacket because of the heat.
(figurative) She could now discard all thought of promotion.
10% of the data was discarded as unreliable.
He shows great discernment in his choice of friends.
Patients were being discharged from the hospital too early.
She had discharged herself against medical advice.
He was discharged from the army following his injury.
She was discharged from the police force for bad conduct.
He was conditionally discharged after admitting the theft.
The river is diverted through the power station before discharging into the sea.
The factory was fined for discharging chemicals into the river.
Lightning is caused by clouds discharging electricity.
to discharge your duties/responsibilities/obligations
to discharge a debt (= to pay it)
a ban on the discharge of toxic waste
thunder and lightning caused by electrical discharges
nasal/vaginal discharge (= from the nose/ vagina )
the discharge of debts/obligations
She's a very strict disciplinarian.
a disciplinary hearing (= to decide if sb has done sth wrong)
The company will be taking disciplinary action against him.
The school has a reputation for high standards of discipline.
Strict discipline is imposed on army recruits.
She keeps good discipline in class.
Yoga is a good discipline for learning to relax.
He'll never get anywhere working for himself—he's got no discipline.
The officers were disciplined for using racist language.
a guide to the best ways of disciplining your child
Dieting is a matter of disciplining yourself.
He disciplined himself to exercise at least three times a week.
a disciplined army/team
a disciplined approach to work
She disclaimed any knowledge of her husband's whereabouts.
The rebels disclaimed all responsibility for the explosion.
The spokesman refused to disclose details of the takeover to the press.
The report discloses that human error was to blame for the accident.
It was disclosed that two women were being interviewed by the police.
I cannot disclose what we discussed.
The door swung open, disclosing a long dark passage.
the newspaper's disclosure of defence secrets
startling disclosures about his private life
disco music/dancing
the youth club disco
discoloration caused by the sun
Plastic tends to discolour with age.
The pipes were beginning to rust, discolouring the water.
He was clearly taking delight in her discomfiture.
You will experience some minor discomfort during the treatment.
abdominal discomfort
John's presence caused her considerable discomfort.
His answer rather disconcerted her.
I was disconcerted to find that everyone else already knew it.
She had the disconcerting habit of saying exactly what she thought.
First, disconnect the boiler from the water mains.
You may be disconnected if you do not pay the bill.
The ski had become disconnected from the boot.
We were suddenly disconnected.
I keep getting disconnected when I'm online.
My computer crashes every time I disconnect from the Internet.
disconnected images/thoughts/ideas
I felt disconnected from the world around me.
There is widespread discontent among the staff at the proposed changes to pay and conditions.
It was decided to discontinue the treatment after three months.
a sale of discontinued china
discontinuity in the children's education
Changes in government led to discontinuities in policy.
marital/family discord
A note of discord surfaced during the proceedings.
discordant views
to get/give/offer a discount
discount rates/prices
They're offering a 10% discount on all sofas this month.
They were selling everything at a discount (= at reduced prices).
a discount shop (= one that regularly sells goods at reduced prices)
Do you give any discount?
We cannot discount the possibility of further strikes.
The news reports were being discounted as propaganda.
discounted prices/fares
a campaign to discourage smoking among teenagers
I leave a light on when I'm out to discourage burglars.
His parents tried to discourage him from being an actor.
Don't be discouraged by the first failure—try again!
The weather discouraged people from attending.
Learners can feel very discouraged if an exercise is too difficult.
a discouraging experience/response/result
an atmosphere of discouragement and despair
the government's discouragement of political protest
Despite all these discouragements, she refused to give up.
a discourse on issues of gender and sexuality
He was hoping for some lively political discourse at the meeting.
spoken/written discourse
discourse analysis
They are working to improve the discoverability of their e-books.
The photos were deliberately taken to discredit the President.
a discredited government/policy
These theories are now largely discredited among linguists.
Violent football fans bring discredit on the teams they support.
Britain, to its discredit, did not speak out against these atrocities.
He was always very discreet about his love affairs.
You ought to make a few discreet enquiries before you sign anything.
She coughed discreetly to announce her presence.
wide discrepancies in prices quoted for the work
What are the reasons for the discrepancy between girls' and boys' performance in school?
The organisms can be divided into discrete categories.
I'll leave it up to you to use your discretion.
How much to tell terminally ill patients is left to the discretion of the doctor.
This is confidential, but I know that I can rely on your discretion.
You may be eligible for a discretionary grant for your university course.
The computer program was unable to discriminate between letters and numbers.
When do babies learn to discriminate voices?
A number of features discriminate this species from others.
practices that discriminate against women and in favour of men
It is illegal to discriminate on grounds of race, sex or religion.
a discriminating audience/customer
age/racial/sex/sexual discrimination (= because of sb's age, race or sex)
discrimination against the elderly
discrimination in favour of the young
discrimination on the grounds of race, gender, or sexual orientation
He showed great discrimination in his choice of friends.
to learn discrimination between right and wrong
fine discriminations
discriminatory practices/rules/measures
sexually/racially discriminatory laws
distinctions between traditional and modern societies
Philosophers did not use to make a distinction between arts and science.
We need to draw a distinction between the two events.
a writer of distinction
She had the distinction of being the first woman to fly the Atlantic.
The new law makes no distinction between adults and children (= treats them equally).
All groups are entitled to this money without distinction.
Naomi got a distinction in maths.
He graduated with distinction.
clothes with a distinctive style
The male bird has distinctive white markings on its head.
a distinctively nutty flavour
the discursive style of the novel
to treat sb with disdain
a disdain for the law
She disdained his offer of help.
He disdained to turn to his son for advice.
She's always been disdainful of people who haven't been to college.
diseased tissue
the diseased social system
a disembodied voice
disembodied spirits
He was becoming disenchanted with his job as a lawyer.
a growing sense/feeling of disenchantment with his job
She gently disengaged herself from her sleeping son.
(figurative) They wished to disengage themselves from these policies.
to disengage the clutch (= when driving a car)
We saw the booster rockets disengage and fall into the sea.
It's not easy to disentangle the truth from the official statistics.
He tried to disentangle his fingers from her hair.
(figurative) She has just disentangled herself from a painful relationship.
He was sitting on the deck disentangling a coil of rope.
a campaign to disestablish the Church of England
Her face was disfigured by a long red scar.
He suffered permanent disfigurement in the fire.
children from dysfunctional families
The pipe disgorges sewage into the sea.
The bus disgorged a crowd of noisy children.
Her behaviour has brought disgrace on her family.
The swimmer was sent home from the Olympics in disgrace.
There is no disgrace in being poor.
Sam was in disgrace with his parents.
Your homework is an absolute disgrace.
That sort of behaviour is a disgrace to the legal profession.
The state of our roads is a national disgrace.
It's a disgrace that (= it is very wrong that) they are paid so little.
I disgraced myself by drinking far too much.
He had disgraced the family name.
He was publicly disgraced and sent into exile.
a disgraced politician/leader
His behaviour was absolutely disgraceful!
It's disgraceful that none of the family tried to help her.
a disgraceful waste of money
disgruntled employees
I left feeling disgruntled at the way I'd been treated.
The hijackers were heavily disguised.
They got in disguised as security guards.
She disguised herself as a boy.
She made no attempt to disguise her surprise.
It was a thinly disguised attack on the President.
She couldn't disguise the fact that she felt uncomfortable.
She wore glasses and a wig as a disguise.
The star travelled in disguise (= wearing a disguise ).
A vote for the Greens is just a Labour vote in disguise.
He is a master of disguise.
She expressed her disgust at the programme by writing a letter of complaint.
I can only feel disgust for these criminals.
The idea fills me with disgust.
He walked away in disgust.
Much to my disgust, they refused to help.
She wrinkled her nose in disgust at the smell.
The level of violence in the film really disgusted me.
I was disgusted at/by the sight.
I was disgusted with myself for eating so much.
He was disgusted to see such awful living conditions.
'This champagne is warm!', he said disgustedly.
The kitchen was in a disgusting state when she left.
I think it's disgusting that they're closing the local hospital.
His language is disgusting (= he uses a lot of offensive words).
He looked disgustingly healthy when he got back from the Bahamas.
disgustingly dirty
a glass dish
an ovenproof dish
a baking/serving dish
They helped themselves from a large dish of pasta.
I'll do the dishes (= wash them).
a vegetarian/fish dish
This makes an excellent hot main dish.
I can recommend the chef's dish of the day.
a soap dish
What a dish!
He enjoys dishing it out, but he really can't take it (= cannot accept criticism from other people).
Students dished out leaflets to passers-by.
She's always dishing out advice, even when you don't want it.
Can you dish out the potatoes, please?
marital/racial/social disharmony
Don't let this defeat dishearten you.
a disheartened team
a disheartening experience
He looked tired and dishevelled.
Beware of dishonest traders in the tourist areas.
I don't like him, and it would be dishonest of me to pretend otherwise.
You have dishonoured the name of the school.
He had dishonoured nearly all of his election pledges.
It would have been dishonourable of her not to keep her promise.
He was given a dishonourable discharge (= an order to leave the army for unacceptable behaviour).
to load/stack the dishwasher
I hate to disillusion you, but not everyone is as honest as you.
I soon became disillusioned with the job.
There is widespread disillusionment with the present government.
There was a general disinclination to return to the office after lunch.
He was strongly disinclined to believe anything that she said.
to disinfect a surface/room/wound
a strong smell of disinfectant
It would be disingenuous of me to claim I had never seen it.
His total disinterest in money puzzled his family.
a disinterested onlooker/spectator
Her advice appeared to be disinterested.
He is completely uninterested in politics.
I am not really interested in politics.
A solicitor can give you disinterested advice.
The food was dull and uninteresting.
Red blood cells are roughly the shape of a disk.
Why do you dislike him so much?
He disliked it when she behaved badly in front of his mother.
I dislike being away from my family.
Much as she disliked going to funerals (= although she did not like it at all), she knew she had to be there.
He disliked her staying away from home.
He did not try to hide his dislike of his boss.
She took an instant dislike to the house and the neighbourhood.
I've told you all my likes and dislikes.
He dislocated his shoulder in the accident.
a dislocated finger
a dislocation of the shoulder
These policies could cause severe economic and social dislocation.
The wind dislodged one or two tiles from the roof.
The rebels have so far failed to dislodge the President.
He was accused of being disloyal to the government.
dismal conditions/surroundings/weather
The singer gave a dismal performance of some old songs.
Their recent attempt to increase sales has been a dismal failure.
I tried not to laugh but failed dismally (= was completely unsuccessful).
I had to dismantle the engine in order to repair it.
The steel mill was dismantled piece by piece.
The government was in the process of dismantling the state-owned industries.
She could not hide her dismay at the result.
He looked at her in dismay.
To her dismay, her name was not on the list.
The news has been greeted with dismay by local business leaders.
Their reaction dismayed him.
He was dismayed at the change in his old friend.
The suggestion was greeted by a dismayed silence.
They were dismayed to find that the ferry had already left.
I think we can safely dismiss their objections.
Vegetarians are no longer dismissed as cranks.
He dismissed the opinion polls as worthless.
The suggestion should not be dismissed out of hand (= without thinking about it).
Dismissing her fears, she climbed higher.
He dismissed her from his mind.
She claims she was unfairly dismissed from her post.
At 12 o'clock the class was dismissed.
The case was dismissed.
He still hopes to win his claim against unfair dismissal.
The dismissals followed the resignation of the chairman.
Her casual dismissal of the threats seemed irresponsible.
the dismissal of the appeal
a dismissive gesture/tone
to shrug/wave dismissively
a disobedient child
He was punished for disobeying orders.
a disobliging manner
His financial affairs were in complete disorder.
The room was in a state of disorder.
an outbreak of rioting and public disorder
a blood/bowel, etc. disorder
eating disorders
He was suffering from some form of psychiatric disorder.
disordered hair
a disordered state
emotionally disordered children
disorderly conduct
They were arrested for being drunk and disorderly.
newspapers in a disorderly pile by the door
It was a hectic disorganized weekend.
She's so disorganized.
The darkness had disorientated him.
Ex-soldiers can be disorientated by the transition to civilian life.
She felt shocked and totally disorientated.
Her family disowned her for marrying a foreigner.
I don't mean to disparage your achievements.
disparaging remarks
He spoke disparagingly of his colleagues.
a disparate group of individuals
the wide disparity between rich and poor
taking a calm, dispassionate view of the situation
a dispassionate observer
Troops have been dispatched to the area.
A courier was dispatched to collect the documents.
Goods are dispatched within 24 hours of your order reaching us.
He dispatched the younger player in straight sets.
More food supplies are ready for immediate dispatch.
dispatches from the war zone
His speech dispelled any fears about his health.
The machine dispenses a range of drinks and snacks.
The organization dispenses free health care to the poor.
to dispense justice/advice
to dispense a prescription
(BrE) to dispense medicine
(BrE) a dispensing chemist
Debit cards dispense with the need for cash altogether.
I think we can dispense with the formalities (= speak openly and naturally to each other).
They looked on music and art lessons as dispensable.
She needed a special dispensation to remarry.
The sport's ruling body gave him dispensation to compete in national competitions.
the dispensation of justice
a soap dispenser
police trained in crowd dispersal
the dispersal of seeds
The fog began to disperse.
The crowd dispersed quickly.
Police dispersed the protesters with tear gas.
The seeds are dispersed by the wind.
She looked tired and dispirited.
a dispiriting experience/failure
Gradually factory workers have been displaced by machines.
(specialist) The ship displaces 58 000 tonnes (= as a way of measuring its size).
Around 10 000 people have been displaced by the fighting.
Check for roof tiles that have been displaced by the wind.
displaced workers
the largest displacement of civilian population since World War Two
a ship with a displacement of 10 000 tonnes
The exhibition gives local artists an opportunity to display their work.
She displayed her bruises for all to see.
I have rarely seen her display any sign of emotion.
These statistics display a definite trend.
The screen will display the username in the top right-hand corner.
This column displays the title of the mail message.
a beautiful floral display outside the Town Hall
a window display
a display cabinet
a firework display
a breathtaking display of aerobatics
a display of affection/strength/wealth
a high resolution colour display
Designs for the new sports hall are on display in the library.
to put sth on temporary/permanent display
Are you displeased with my work?
She was not displeased at the effect she was having on the young man.
His remarks were clearly not displeasing to her.
She made no attempt to hide her displeasure at the prospect.
disposable gloves/razors
(BrE) disposable nappies
(NAmE) disposable diapers
disposable assets/capital/resources
a person's disposable income (= money they are free to spend after paying taxes, etc.)
a bomb disposal squad
sewage disposal systems
the disposal of nuclear waste
a drug that disposes the patient towards sleep
the difficulties of disposing of nuclear waste
to dispose of stolen property
That seems to have disposed of most of their arguments.
It took her a mere 20 minutes to dispose of her opponent.
I'm not disposed to argue.
You're most welcome to join us if you feel so disposed.
being naturally disposed towards speculation
She seems favourably disposed to the move.
to have a cheerful disposition
people of a nervous disposition
to have/show a disposition towards violence
the disproportion between the extra responsibilities and the small salary increase
a profession with a high disproportion of male to female employees
The area contains a disproportionate number of young middle-class families.
The lower-paid spend a disproportionately large amount of their earnings on food.
The theory has now been disproved.
a dispute between the two countries about the border
the latest dispute over fishing rights
industrial/pay disputes
The union is in dispute with management over working hours.
The cause of the accident was still in dispute (= being argued about).
The matter was settled beyond dispute by the court judgment (= it could no longer be argued about).
His theories are open to dispute (= can be disagreed with).
These figures have been disputed.
to dispute a decision/claim
The family wanted to dispute the will.
No one is disputing that there is a problem.
It is disputed whether the law applies in this case.
disputed territory
The issue remains hotly disputed.
On the last lap three runners were disputing the lead.
He was disqualified from the competition for using drugs.
(BrE) You could be disqualified from driving for up to three years.
A heart condition disqualified him for military service.
Any form of cheating means automatic disqualification.
There is considerable public disquiet about the safety of the new trains.
The board completely disregarded my recommendations.
Safety rules were disregarded.
She shows a total disregard for other people's feelings.
The station quickly fell into disrepair after it was closed.
She spent the evening with her disreputable brother Stefan.
a disreputable area of the city
The players' behaviour on the field is likely to bring the game into disrepute.
disrespect for the law/the dead
No disrespect intended, sir. It was just a joke.
They were accused of disrespecting the country's flag.
They were accused of treating the country's flag with disrespect.
She went behind the screen to disrobe.
Demonstrators succeeded in disrupting the meeting.
Bus services will be disrupted tomorrow because of the bridge closure.
We aim to help you move house with minimum disruption to yourself.
disruptions to rail services
The strike caused serious disruptions.
She had a disruptive influence on the rest of the class.
Her latest novel was dissected by the critics.
The city is dissected by a network of old canals.
anatomical dissection
Your enjoyment of a novel can suffer from too much analysis and dissection.
She was a very honest person who was incapable of dissembling.
Their findings have been widely disseminated.
dissension within the government
political/religious dissent
Only two ministers dissented from the official view.
dissenting groups/voices/views/opinion
These wines are not dissimilar (= are similar).
Eventually, his anger dissipated.
Her laughter soon dissipated the tension in the air.
the dissipation of energy in the form of heat
concerns about the dissipation of the country's wealth
He tried to dissociate himself from the party's more extreme views.
They were determined to dissociate the UN from any agreement to impose sanctions.
She tried to dissociate the two events in her mind.
dissonant voices/notes
I tried to dissuade him from giving up his job.
They were going to set off in the fog, but were dissuaded.
the distal end of the tibia
a short/long distance
the distance of the earth from the sun
a distance of 200 kilometres
What's the distance between New York City and Boston/from New York City to Boston?
In the US, distance is measured in miles.
The beach is within walking distance of my house (= you can walk there easily).
Paul has to drive very long distances as part of his job.
Our parents live some distance away (= quite far away).
Distance is no problem on the Internet.
You'll never get the ball in from that distance.
The distance between fashion and art remains as great as ever.
The government is keen to put some distance between itself and these events (= show that there is no connection between them).
(BrE) Eddie is, by some distance (= by a great amount), the funniest character in the show.
The coldness and distance in her voice took me by surprise.
Nobody thought he would last 15 rounds, but he went the full distance.
We saw lights in the distance.
Alice stood staring into the distance.
She was warned to keep her distance from Charles if she didn't want to get hurt.
The beach is within striking distance.
The cat was now within striking distance of the duck.
When he retired, he tried to distance himself from politics.
It's not always easy for nurses to distance themselves emotionally.
the distant sound of music
distant stars/planets
The time we spent together is now a distant memory.
(formal) The airport was about 20 kilometres distant.
a star 30 000 light years distant from the Earth
(figurative) Peace was just a distant hope (= not very likely).
Their life seemed utterly distant from his own.
a distant cousin/aunt/relative
Pat sounded very cold and distant on the phone.
There was a distant look in her eyes; her mind was obviously on something else.
Somewhere, distantly, he could hear the sound of the sea.
We're distantly related.
Holly smiled distantly.
stories from the distant past
He looked around the filthy room in distaste.
a distaste for politics of any sort
starving children with huge distended bellies
distension of the stomach
to distil fresh water from sea water
distilled water
The factory distils and bottles whisky.
The notes I made on my travels were distilled into a book.
the distillation process
There was a distinct smell of gas.
His voice was quiet but every word was distinct.
The results of the survey fell into two distinct groups.
Jamaican reggae music is quite distinct from North American jazz or blues.
rural areas, as distinct from major cities
Being tall gave Tony a distinct advantage.
I had the distinct impression I was being watched.
A strike is now a distinct possibility.
I distinctly heard someone calling me.
a distinctly Australian accent
He could remember everything very distinctly.
At what age are children able to distinguish between right and wrong?
It was hard to distinguish one twin from the other.
Sometimes reality and fantasy are hard to distinguish.
What was it that distinguished her from her classmates?
The male bird is distinguished from the female by its red beak.
Does your cat have any distinguishing marks?
I could not distinguish her words, but she sounded agitated.
She has already distinguished herself as an athlete.
The male bird is easily distinguishable from the female.
The coast was barely distinguishable in the mist.
a distinguished career in medicine
I think grey hair makes you look very distinguished.
I'm sorry to disturb you, but can I talk to you for a moment?
If you get up early, try not to disturb everyone else.
Do not disturb (= a sign placed on the outside of the door of a hotel room, office, etc.)
She awoke early after a disturbed night.
Don't disturb the papers on my desk.
The letter shocked and disturbed me.
It disturbed her to realize that she was alone.
a fairground mirror that distorts your shape
The loudspeaker seemed to distort his voice.
Newspapers are often guilty of distorting the truth.
The article gave a distorted picture of his childhood.
modern alloys that are resistant to wear and distortion
a distortion of the facts
You're distracting me from my work.
Don't talk to her—she's very easily distracted.
It was another attempt to distract attention from the truth.
distracting thoughts
a distracting noise
I find it hard to work at home because there are too many distractions.
cinema audiences looking for distraction
The children are driving me to distraction today.
The newspaper article caused the actor considerable distress.
She was obviously in distress after the attack.
deep emotional distress
economic/financial distress
a distress signal (= a message asking for help)
It is a rule of the sea to help another boat in distress.
It was clear that the letter had deeply distressed her.
Don't distress yourself (= don't worry).
He was too distressed and confused to answer their questions.
When the baby was born, it was blue and distressed.
a distressed leather jacket
They buy up financially distressed companies.
The charity helps kids in distressed situations.
The newspaper is distributed free.
The organization distributed food to the earthquake victims.
The money was distributed among schools in the area.
Who distributes our products in the UK?
Make sure that your weight is evenly distributed.
Japan's largest software distributor
the unfair distribution of wealth
The map shows the distribution of this species across the world.
They studied the geographical distribution of the disease.
the distribution of food and medicines to the flood victims
He was arrested on drug distribution charges.
distribution costs
worldwide distribution systems
marketing, sales and distribution
the City of London's financial district
a tax/postal district
a school district
congressional districts
district councils
a special school for emotionally disturbed children
The question is, was the man insane when he committed the crime?
the treatment of anxiety in neurotic patients
She became neurotic about keeping the house clean.
He works with emotionally disturbed children.
The killer had a disturbed family background.
I was deeply disturbed and depressed by the news.
They looked at each other with distrust.
He has a deep distrust of all modern technology.
distrustful of authority
She distrusted his motives for wanting to see her again.
The building work is creating constant noise, dust and disturbance.
a disturbance in the usual pattern of events
the disturbance of the local wildlife by tourists
serious disturbances in the streets
He was charged with causing a disturbance after the game.
emotional disturbance
a disturbing piece of news
a disunited political party
disunity within the Conservative party
The factory fell into disuse twenty years ago.
a disused station
The new road building programme has been ditched.
He ditched his girlfriend.
Stop dithering and get on with it.
She was dithering over what to wear.
I'm in a dither about who to invite.
Don't get yourself in a dither over everything.
The waiters were rude and unhelpful, the manager ditto.
diuretic drugs/effects
the diurnal rotation of the earth
League Div. 1 (= in football/ soccer )
We dived into the river to cool off.
to dive for pearls
The main purpose of his holiday to Greece was to go diving.
The whale dived as the harpoon struck it.
The seagulls soared then dived.
The share price dived from 75p to an all-time low of 50p.
We heard an explosion and dived for cover (= got into a place where we would be protected).
The goalie dived for the ball, but missed it.
It started to rain so we dived into the nearest cafe.
She dived into her bag and took out a couple of coins.
a spectacular high dive (= from high above the water)
a dive to a depth of 18 metres
The goalkeeper made a dive for the ball.
Profits really took a dive last year.
The parallel lines appear to diverge.
We went through school and college together, but then our paths diverged.
The coastal road diverges from the freeway just north of Santa Monica.
Many species have diverged from a single ancestor.
Opinions diverge greatly on this issue.
to diverge from the norm
He diverged from established procedure.
a wide divergence of opinion
divergent paths/opinions
people from diverse cultures
My interests are very diverse.
Farmers are being encouraged to diversify into new crops.
Patterns of family life are diversifying.
The culture has been diversified with the arrival of immigrants.
a river diversion project
We made a short diversion to go and look at the castle.
the diversion of funds from the public to the private sector of industry
For the government, the war was a welcome diversion from the country's economic problems.
A smoke bomb created a diversion while the robbery took place.
Diversions will be signposted.
The party will make a pleasant diversion.
The city is full of diversions.
the biological diversity of the rainforests
a great/wide/rich diversity of opinion
There is a need for greater diversity and choice in education.
Northbound traffic will have to be diverted onto minor roads.
The war diverted people's attention away from the economic situation.
Children are easily diverted.
He divested himself of his jacket.
The company is divesting itself of some of its assets.
After her illness she was divested of much of her responsibility.
The government is divided on this issue.
a deeply divided society
The regime is profoundly divided against itself.
dividend payments of 50 cents a share
Exercising regularly will pay dividends in the end.
a room divider (= a screen or door that divides a room into two parts)
a pair of dividers
There is no clear dividing line between what is good and what is bad.
The river was chosen as a dividing line between the two districts.
divine law/love/will
divine intervention (= help from God to change a situation)
She could divine what he was thinking just by looking at him.
No player has a divine right to be in this team.
a diving competition
I'd love to go diving in the Aegean.
a diving suit
the divinity of Christ
Roman/Greek/Egyptian divinities
a doctor of Divinity
8 is divisible by 2 and 4, but not by 3.
the divisional commander/headquarters
He believes that unemployment is socially divisive.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1996.
an increase in the divorce rate (= the number of divorces in a year)
They have agreed to get a divorce.
Divorce proceedings (= the legal process of divorce) started today.
the divorce between religion and science
They're getting divorced.
She's divorcing her husband.
I'd heard they're divorcing.
They believed that art should be divorced from politics.
Many divorced men remarry and have second families.
My parents are divorced.
He seems completely divorced from reality.
Police refused to divulge the identity of the suspect.
a DIY store
Climbing so high made me feel dizzy.
I suffer from dizzy spells (= short periods when I am dizzy ).
the dizzy descent from the summit
the dizzy pace of life in Hong Kong
a dizzy blonde
She dreamed of reaching the dizzy heights of stardom.
The car drove past at a dizzying speed.
a DNA test
What are you doing this evening?
We will do what we can to help.
Are you doing anything tomorrow evening?
The company ought to do something about the poor service.
What have you done to your hair?
There's nothing to do (= no means of passing the time in an enjoyable way) in this place.
There's nothing we can do about it (= we can't change the situation).
What can I do for you (= how can I help)?
Do as you're told!
They are free to do as they please.
You would do well to (= I advise you to) consider all the options before buying.
How is the business doing?
She did well out of (= made a big profit from) the deal.
He's doing very well at school (= his work is good).
Both mother and baby are doing well (= after the birth of the baby).
(informal) How are you doing (= how are you)?
I'm doing some research on the subject.
I have a number of things to do today.
I do aerobics once a week.
Let's do (= meet for) lunch.
(informal) Sorry. I don't do funny (= I can't be funny).
to do (= wash) the dishes
to do (= arrange) the flowers
I like the way you've done your hair.
I like listening to the radio when I'm doing the ironing.
She did a lot of acting when she was at college.
What do you do (= what is your job)?
What does she want to do when she leaves school?
What did she do for a living?
What's Tom doing these days?
I'm doing physics, biology and chemistry.
Have you done any (= studied anything by) Keats?
I can't do this sum.
Are you good at doing crosswords?
to do a drawing/painting/sketch
Does this pub do (= provide) lunches?
Who's doing (= organizing and preparing) the food for the wedding reception?
I'll do a copy for you.
I'll do you a copy.
The local dramatic society is doing 'Hamlet' next month.
He does a great Elvis Presley.
Can you do a Welsh accent?
Sit there and wait till I've done.
I've done talking—let's get started.
Did you get your article done in time?
How many miles did you do during your tour?
My car does 40 miles to the gallon (= uses one gallon of petrol/gas to travel 40 miles).
We did the round trip in two hours.
The car was doing 90 miles an hour.
We did Tokyo in three days.
She did a year at college, but then dropped out.
He did six years (= in prison) for armed robbery.
The hairdresser said she could do me (= cut my hair) at three.
'Can you lend me some money?' 'Sure— will $20 do?'
These shoes won't do for the party.
The box will do fine as a table.
(especially BrE) This room will do me nicely, thank you (= it has everything I need).
How would you like your steak done?
This isn't a genuine antique—you've been done.
They did him for tax evasion.
She got done for speeding.
The gang did a warehouse and a supermarket.
He doesn't smoke, drink or do drugs.
Her job has something to do with computers.
'How much do you earn?' 'What's it got to do with you?'
Hard work has a lot to do with (= is an important reason for) her success.
We don't have very much to do with our neighbours (= we do not speak to them very often).
I'd have nothing to do with him, if I were you.
This is the third time you've been late this week; it simply won't do.
That hairstyle doesn't do anything for her.
'Can you lend me ten dollars?' 'Nothing doing!'
Sharon went to get into the taxi. 'Oh no you don't,' said Steve.
That does it, I'm off. I'm not having you swear at me like that.
That's done it. You've completely broken it this time.
That'll do, children—you're getting far too noisy.
What do you do for entertainment out here?
What are these shoes doing on my desk?
He thinks it's time we did away with the monarchy.
Without that contract, we're done for.
Come and sit down—you look done in.
He did his back in lifting heavy furniture.
She was done out of her promotion.
He was done over by a gang of thugs.
The paintwork will need doing over soon.
She insisted that everything be done over.
He got home to find that his flat had been done over.
The skirt does up at the back.
He never bothers to do his jacket up.
She was carrying a package done up in brown paper.
He makes money by buying old houses and doing them up.
I don't know what to do with (= how to use) all the food that's left over.
What have you done with (= where have you put) my umbrella?
What have you been doing with yourselves (= how have you been passing the time)?
She can't do without a secretary.
If they can't get it to us in time, we'll just have to do without.
(ironic) I could have done without being (= I wish I had not been) woken up at three in the morning.
I don't like fish.
They didn't go to Paris.
Don't forget to write.
Does she speak French?
You live in New York, don't you?
She doesn't work here, does she?
He plays better than he did a year ago.
She works harder than he does.
'Who won?' 'I did.'
'I love peaches.' ' So do I.'
'I don't want to go back.' ' Neither do I.'
He does look tired.
She did at least write to say thank you.
(BrE) Do shut up!
Not only does she speak Spanish, she's also good with computers.
Are you having a big do for your birthday?
Here are some dos and don'ts for exercise during pregnancy.
Fair's fair—you can't expect them to cancel everything just because you can't make it.
They did a very professional job.
You've certainly made an excellent job of the kitchen (= for example, painting it).
There were no children to cook for, so we could just please ourselves.
Do you think these latest changes will do any good?
Don't you think talking to her would do some good?
I'm sure a few days off would do you a power of good (= improve your health).
That photo doesn't do you justice.
You cannot do justice to such a complex situation in just a few pages.
'Do you think they'll win?' 'Do me a favour! They haven't got a single decent player.'
Her new business is doing very nicely.
Tomorrow at ten will do nicely (= will be a good time).
You're expecting twins? Well, you never did do anything by halves.
She was doing herself no service by remaining silent.
Would you do me the honour of dining with me?
You're not doing yourself any favours, working for nothing.
The orchestra did Beethoven no favours.
Shut up! You're doing my head in.
A change of job would do you the world of good.
I ate as if there was no tomorrow.
She spends money like there's no tomorrow.
Persons swimming beyond this point do so at their own risk (= on a notice).
Valuables are left at their owner's risk (= on a notice).
I just did it for a laugh, but it got out of hand.
Would you do the honours and draw the winning ticket?
This extra strong glue should do the job.
If only someone had done the math!
Do the maths before you take on more debt.
I don't know what it was that did the trick, but I am definitely feeling much better.
That song just does things to me.
Jack is doing very well at school.
He would do well to concentrate more on his work.
You did well to sell when the price was high.
The news has done wonders for our morale.
Do you mind? I was here before you.
Some members of the team are just not doing their stuff (= doing as well as they should).
(figurative) The medicine has clearly done its stuff.
Let them do their worst—we'll fight them every inch of the way.
Watch how you use those scissors—you could do yourself a mischief!
She didn't do herself justice in the exam.
We may have been doing him an injustice. This work is good.
The materials you need are available from any good do-it-yourself store.
a do-or-die attitude
It's not doable by Friday.
Sue dobbed me in to the teacher.
legal documents
travel documents
Copies of the relevant documents must be filed at court.
One of the documents leaked to the press was a memorandum written by the head of the security police.
Save the document before closing.
Causes of the disease have been well documented.
documented evidence
a docile child/horse
dock workers
The ship was in dock.
He's been in the dock (= on trial for a crime) several times already.
dock leaves
The ferry is expected to dock at 6.
Next year, a technology module will be docked on the space station.
If you're late, your wages will be docked.
They've docked 15% off my pay for this week.
an iPod docking station
plans to further redevelop Bristol's docklands
You'd better see a doctor about that cough.
Doctor Staples (= as a title/form of address)
an appointment at the doctor's
a Doctor of Philosophy/Law
Doctor Franks (= as a title/form of address)
He was accused of doctoring the figures.
The wine had been doctored.
(BrE) a doctoral thesis
(NAmE) a doctoral dissertation
She's studying for her doctorate.
a doctrinaire conservative
doctrinaire attitudes/beliefs/policies
the doctrinal position of the English church
(disapproving) a rigidly doctrinal approach
the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty
Christian doctrine
the Monroe Doctrine
a television documentary about/on the future of nuclear power
documentary evidence/sources/material
a documentary film about the war
I couldn't enter the country because I didn't have all the necessary documentation.
the documentation of an agreement
The first year of the course was an absolute doddle.
The machine is a doddle to set up and use.
He ran across the road, dodging the traffic.
The girl dodged behind a tree to hide from the other children.
He dodged his military service.
She tried to dodge paying her taxes.
a tax dodge
When it comes to getting off work, he knows all the dodges.
The kids wanted to go on the dodgems.
tax dodgers
a crackdown on fare dodgers on trains
He made a lot of money, using some very dodgy methods.
I don't want to get involved in anything dodgy.
I can't play—I've got a dodgy knee.
The marriage had been distinctly dodgy for a long time.
If you get into any dodgy situations, call me.
We need fewer organizers and more doers.
Sometimes our guys appear a bit dof!
I took the dog for a walk.
I could hear a dog barking.
dog food
guard dogs
a dog and her puppies
Her last movie was an absolute dog.
You dirty dog!
This firm's gone to the dogs since the new management took over.
He had been dogged by ill health all his life.
She had the impression that someone was dogging her steps.
dogged determination/persistence
their dogged defence of the city
The car park is a popular dogging site.
Parks are invaded by doggers at night.
a doggy smell
Where's the doggone key?
Don't drive so doggone fast.
Well, doggone it!
political/religious/party dogma
one of the central dogmas of the Church
a dogmatic approach
There is a danger of becoming too dogmatic about teaching methods.
I've been hearing a lot about your doings recently.
I promise you this was none of my doing (= I didn't do it).
Getting it finished by tomorrow will take some doing.
He's been in the doldrums ever since she left him.
The bond market normally revives after the summer doldrums.
Despite these measures, the economy remains in the doldrums.
He's been on the dole (= without a job) for a year.
The government is changing the rules for claiming dole.
lengthening dole queues
We could all be in the dole queue on Monday (= have lost our jobs).
a doleful expression/face/song
a doleful looking man
a rag doll (= one made out of cloth)
She's quite a doll.
Are you getting dolled up for the party?
You will be paid in American dollars.
Do you have a dollar?
a dollar bill
The dollar closed two cents down.
a dollop of whipped cream
A dollop of romance now and then is good for everybody.
a school of dolphins
Financial matters are her domain.
Physics used to be very much a male domain.
The Spice Islands were within the Spanish domains.
top-level domains
the dome of St Paul's Cathedral
his bald dome of a head
the Houston Astrodome
a domed forehead/ceiling
domestic affairs/politics
domestic flights (= to and from places within a country)
Output consists of both exports and sales on the domestic market.
domestic appliances
domestic chores
the growing problem of domestic violence (= violence between members of the same family)
domestic service (= the work of a servant in a large house)
I'm not a very domestic sort of person.
domestically produced goods
The police were called to sort out a domestic.
Some men are very hard to domesticate.
domesticated animals
They've become a lot more domesticated since they got married.
the domestication of cattle
an atmosphere of happy domesticity
to be domiciled in the United Kingdom
a domiciliary visit (= for example, by a doctor)
domiciliary care/services/treatment
The firm has achieved a dominant position in the world market.
The dominant feature of the room was the large fireplace.
to achieve/assert dominance over sb
political/economic dominance
As a child he was dominated by his father.
He tended to dominate the conversation.
She always says a lot in meetings, but she doesn't dominate.
The train crash dominated the news.
The cathedral dominates the city.
Arsenal dominated the first half of the match.
political domination
companies fighting for domination of the software market
a cold and domineering father
a domineering manner
Man has dominion over the natural world.
Soon the whole country was under his sole dominion.
the vast dominions of the Roman Empire
He donned his jacket and went out.
Don't start! I told you I'd be late.
'I didn't have time to do it.' 'Oh, don't give me that!'
Don't go getting yourself into trouble.
'Will your dad lend you the money?' 'Don't make me laugh!'
'Thanks for all your help.' 'Don't mention it.'
Don't tell me you were late again!
A quarter of all the people surveyed were don't-knows.
He donated thousands of pounds to charity.
All donated blood is tested for HIV and other infections.
to make a donation to charity
a generous/large/small donation
a donation of £200/a £200 donation
The work of the charity is funded by voluntary donations.
organ donation (= allowing doctors to use an organ from your body in order to save a sick person's life)
The yearbook came out pretty good, doncha think?
When you're done, perhaps I can say something.
I'll be glad when this job is over and done with.
The meat isn't quite done yet.
At school, it simply wasn't done to show that you cared for anything except cricket.
That's my article for the magazine done and dusted.
Why not tell her you're quitting and have done with it?
'I'll give you £800 for it.' 'Done!'
The car slid into a donga at the side of the road.
We've known each other for donkey's years.
He has a somewhat donnish air about him.
international aid donors (= countries which give money, etc. to help other countries)
She is one of the charity's main donors.
a blood donor
The heart transplant will take place as soon as a suitable donor can be found.
donor organs
a donor card (= a card that you carry giving permission for doctors to use parts of your body after your death)
I often doodle when I'm on the phone.
The poor chap's gone doolally.
to meet your doom
She had a sense of impending doom (= felt that sth very bad was going to happen).
Despite the obvious setbacks, it is not all doom and gloom for the England team.
The prophets of doom who said television would kill off the book were wrong.
The plan was doomed to failure.
The marriage was doomed from the start.
doom-laden economic forecasts
This job's going to take me till doomsday.
doomy predictions
Their new album is their doomiest.
a knock on the door
to open/shut/close/slam/lock/bolt the door
to answer the door (= to go and open it because sb has knocked on it or rung the bell)
the front/back door (= at the entrance at the front/back of a building)
the bedroom door
the door frame
a four-door saloon car
the fridge door
Shut the door!
Close the door behind you, please.
The door closed behind him.
Marc appeared through a door at the far end of the room.
(informal) She's just arrived—she's just come in the door.
(informal) He walked out the door.
There's somebody at the door (= at the front door of a house).
'Can I help you?' asked the man at the door.
the family that lives three doors up from us
Our other branch is just a few doors down the road.
50% of the door will go to the Red Cross.
You should spend more time out of doors in the fresh air.
We promise to deliver to your door within 48 hours of you ordering.
I always wanted to work in TV but it took me two years to get a foot in the door.
to ring the doorbell
The police turned up on their doorstep at 3 o'clock this morning.
The nightlife is great with bars and clubs right on the doorstep.
She stood in the doorway for a moment before going in.
homeless people sleeping in shop doorways
Let's have a dop.
They lay around dopping all day.
I dopped my first year at varsity.
The athlete failed a dope test (= a medical test showed that he had taken such drugs).
Give me the dope on the new boss.
Thieves doped a guard dog and stole $10 000 worth of goods.
The wine was doped.
a dopey grin
I felt dopey and drowsy after the operation.
He's a real Dorian Gray, apparently untouched by the ageing process.
a Doric column/temple
a dormant volcano
During the winter the seeds lie dormant in the soil.
a shark's dorsal fin
a high/low dosage
to increase/reduce the dosage
Do not exceed the recommended dosage.
a high/low/lethal dose
Repeat the dose after 12 hours if necessary.
A dose of flu kept me off work.
Workers at the nuclear plant were exposed to high doses of radiation.
I can cope with her in small doses (= for short amounts of time).
She dosed herself up with vitamin pills.
He was heavily dosed with painkillers.
You can doss down on my floor.
We were just dossing about in lessons today.
to assemble/compile a dossier
We have a dossier on him.
There are dots above the letters i and j.
Text and graphics are printed at 300 dots per inch.
The helicopters appeared as two black dots on the horizon.
a white dog with a black patch on its head
patches of dense fog
The letters 'i' and 'j' have dots over them.
The island is a small green dot on the map.
The horse had a white mark on its head.
Which has spots, a leopard or a tiger?
The taxi showed up on the dot.
Breakfast is served at 8 on the dot.
I've been going there every summer since the year dot.
Why do you never dot your i's?
The countryside was dotted with small villages.
Small villages dot the countryside.
There are lots of Italian restaurants dotted around London.
Dot the cream all over your face.
Dot your face with the cream.
The weaker dot-coms collapsed.
a dot-com millionaire
He dotes on his children.
Country boundaries are shown on this map as dotted lines.
Fold along the dotted line.
Write your name on the dotted line.
Just sign on the dotted line and the car is yours.
a double helping
two double whiskies
double doors
a double-page advertisement
'Otter' is spelt with a double t.
My extension is two four double 0 (2400).
a double bed/room
a double meaning/purpose/aim
It has the double advantage of being both easy and cheap.
His income is double hers.
He earns double what she does.
We need double the amount we already have.
I thought I was seeing double (= seeing two of sth).
Fold the blanket double.
I had to bend double to get under the table.
He gets paid double for doing the same job I do.
Two Scotches, please—and make those doubles, will you?
She's the double of her mother.
Is that a single or a double you want?
mixed doubles (= in which each pair consists of a man and a woman)
Membership almost doubled in two years.
Double all the quantities in the recipe to make enough for eight people.
She doubled the blanket and put it under his head.
He doubled to left field.
The kitchen doubles as a dining room.
We'll have to double up on books; there aren't enough to go around.
They only have one room left: you'll have to double up with Peter.
Jo doubled up with laughter.
I was doubled over with pain.
Inflation is in double figures.
a double-figure pay rise
double-glazed windows
to live/lead a double life
The TV was repaired in double-quick time.
double-action tablets
A randomized double-blind study was carried out to test the drug's effectiveness.
I'll double-check the figures.
He double-crossed the rest of the gang and disappeared with all the money.
the double-edged quality of life in a small town—security and boredom
A car stood double-parked almost in the middle of the road.
I'll have to rush—I'm double-parked.
dressed in doublet and hose
doubly difficult/hard/important
I made doubly sure I locked all the doors when I went out.
I was doubly attracted to the house—by its size and its location.
a feeling of doubt and uncertainty
There is some doubt about the best way to do it.
The article raised doubts about how effective the new drug really was.
There is no doubt at all that we did the right thing.
If you are in any doubt as to whether you should be doing these exercises, consult your doctor.
New evidence has cast doubt on the guilt of the man jailed for the crime.
She knew without a shadow of a doubt that he was lying to her.
Whether he will continue to be successful in future is open to doubt.
It is vital that more is done to prevent the illegal trade in wild animals.
We have to do more to stop people trading wild animals illegally.
It is clear that more needs to be done to protect biodiversity.
We clearly need to do more to protect biodiversity.
It is unfortunate that the practice of keeping monkeys as pets still continues.
It's absolutely terrible that people still keep monkeys as pets.
It is difficult for many people to understand the reasons why certain individuals choose to hunt animals for sport.
I can't understand why anyone would want to kill animals for fun.
Unfortunately, it would seem that not enough is being done to support tiger conservation.
Governments aren't doing enough to help tiger conservation.
There is no doubt that the greatest threat to polar bears comes from global warming.
I believe that the greatest threat…
I've had my doubts about his work since he joined the firm.
It may be all right. Personally, I have my doubts.
If in doubt, wear black.
No doubt she'll call us when she gets there.
He's made some great movies. There's no doubt about it.
There seems no reason to doubt her story.
'Do you think England will win?'—' I doubt it.'
I never doubted (that) she would come.
I doubt whether/if the new one will be any better.
I had no reason to doubt him.
Rose was doubtful about the whole idea.
He was doubtful about accepting extra work.
It's doubtful if this painting is a Picasso.
With her injuries it's doubtful that she'll ever walk again.
It's doubtful whether the car will last another year.
He is injured and is doubtful for the game tomorrow (= unlikely to play).
At the beginning of the war things were looking very doubtful.
This wine is of doubtful quality.
He would doubtless disapprove of what Kelly was doing.
Knead the dough on a floured surface.
The city, drab and dour by day, is transformed at night.
The game proved to be a dour struggle, with both men determined to win.
The car was doused in petrol and set alight.
A dove cooed softly.
He wore a dove-grey suit.
My plans dovetailed nicely with hers.
the dowager Duchess of Norfolk
a dowdy dress
She jumped down off the chair.
He looked down at her.
We watched as the sun went down.
She bent down to pick up her glove.
Mary's not down yet (= she is still upstairs).
The baby can't keep any food down (= in her body).
Please sit down.
He had to go and lie down for a while.
Prices have gone down recently.
We're already two goals down (= the other team has two goals more).
Car crime in Oxford fell significantly last year.
Car crime fell by about a quarter over a 12-month period. *
The number of stolen vehicles dropped from 1 013 to 780, a fall of 26 per cent.
According to this data, 780 vehicles were stolen, 26% down on the previous year.
There was an 11% drop in reported thefts from motor vehicles, from 1 971 to 1 737.
These figures show that, as far as car crime is concerned, the main trend is downwards.
Turn the music down!
The class settled down and she began the lesson.
I can't do 3 down.
They flew down to Texas.
Houses are more expensive down south.
Did you get that down?
I always write everything down.
Have you got me down for the trip?
Everyone will be there, from the Principal down.
At the end of the day we were £20 down.
Well, I've seen six apartments so far. That's six down and four to go!
I'm just going down to the post office.
I saw him down at the shops.
He's gone down the shops.
Down through the years this town has seen many changes.
She organized everything down to the last detail.
The crowds chanted 'Down with NATO!'
She's young and she hasn't really got it down yet.
The stone rolled down the hill.
Tears ran down her face.
Her hair hung down her back to her waist.
He lives just down the street.
Go down the road till you reach the traffic lights.
There's a bridge a mile down the river from here.
an exhibition of costumes down the ages (= from all periods of history)
We downed our coffees and left.
to down a plane
I feel a bit down today.
The system was down all morning.
duck down
a novel about being down and out in London
The town has become very down at heel.
a down-at-heel hotel
We are saving for a down payment on a house.
They've gone to live down south.
The overall mood of the meeting was downbeat.
Eyes downcast, she continued eating.
A group of downcast men stood waiting for food.
Not getting the promotion was a real downer.
He's really on a downer (= very depressed).
The sex scandal finally led to his downfall.
Greed was her downfall.
She's been downgraded from principal to vice-principal.
a downgrading of diplomatic relations
We're disappointed by these results but we're not downhearted.
to run/walk/cycle downhill
Their marriage went downhill after the first child was born.
a downhill path
Downing Street issued a statement late last night.
Any organization can downlink the program without charge.
available for download
the website that gives you the downlow on the best movies
The company wants to break away from its downmarket image.
To get more viewers the TV station was forced to go downmarket.
The coach is downplaying the team's poor performance.
There was suspicion and even downright hatred between them.
She couldn't think of anything to say that wasn't downright rude.
It's not just stupid—it's downright dangerous.
She rushed downstairs and burst into the kitchen.
Wait downstairs in the hall.
a downstairs bathroom
We're painting the downstairs.
to drift/float downstream
downstream of/from the bridge
downstream areas
downstream effects
the current downswing in the airline industry
He is on a career downswing.
The shares were bought on a downtick.
Everyone needs a little downtime.
to go/work downtown
a downtown store
a hotel in the heart of downtown
the recent economic downturns
a downturn in sales/trade/business
the economic downturn of 2008/2009
the downward slope of a hill
the downward trend in inflation
She was trapped in a downward spiral of personal unhappiness.
She was lying face downwards on the grass.
The garden sloped gently downwards to the river.
It was a policy welcomed by world leaders from the US president downwards.
sailing downwind
Warnings were issued to people living downwind of the fire to stay indoors.
Richard Dawkins, the doyen of evolutionary biologists
Martha Graham, the doyenne of American modern dance
2 doz. eggs
Did you sleep well?
I couldn't sleep last night.
'What's Ashley doing?' 'Sh! She's asleep.'
The baby was sleeping peacefully.
He was dozing in front of the TV.
My brother was snoozing on the sofa.
She dozed off in front of the fire.
I had a doze on the train.
Give me a dozen, please.
two dozen eggs
three dozen red roses
several dozen/a few dozen people
The company employs no more than a couple of dozen people.
Only about half a dozen people turned up.
There was only space for a half-dozen tables.
They arrived in dozens (= in large numbers).
I've been there dozens of times.
She was chatting away, nineteen to the dozen.
to be/have/do a DPhil
James Mendelssohn DPhil
Dr (Jane) Walker
a cold drab little office
drab women, dressed in browns and greys
She paid me in dribs and drabs, not all at once.
I've made a rough draft of the letter.
This is only the first draft of my speech.
the final draft (= the final version)
The legislation is still in draft form.
a draft constitution/treaty/agreement
Payment must be made by bank draft drawn on a UK bank.
Can you shut the door? There's a draft in here.
to draft a constitution/contract/bill
I'll draft a letter for you.
Extra police are being drafted in to control the crowds.
They were drafted into the army.
the draftsmen of the constitution
I dragged the chair over to the window.
They dragged her from her bed.
Pull the chair nearer the table.
They use oxen to pull their carts.
The sack is too heavy to lift—you'll have to drag it.
I drew my chair closer to the fire.
a horse-drawn carriage
Fishermen were hauling in their nets.
Our car was towed away by the police.
She tried to escape but he tugged her back.
I managed to drag myself out of bed.
She always drags behind when we walk anywhere.
I'm sorry to drag you all this way in the heat.
The party was so good I couldn't drag myself away.
Time dragged terribly.
The meeting really dragged.
This dress is too long—it drags on the ground when I walk.
He was dragging his coat in the mud.
They dragged the canal for the murder weapon.
The last few weeks of the summer really dragged by.
If he fails, he'll drag us all down with him.
Do you have to drag politics into everything?
Don't drag the children into our argument.
The dispute has dragged on for months.
Let's not drag out this discussion—we need to reach a decision.
We dragged a confession out of him.
Why do you have to keep dragging up my divorce?
He's such a drag.
Walking's a drag—let's drive there.
Having to work late every day is a drag.
He came to be seen as a drag on his own party's prospects.
She took a long drag on her cigarette.
He performed in drag.
a drag queen (= a man who dresses in women's clothes, usually in order to entertain people)
Drain and rinse the pasta.
The marshes have been drained.
You will need to drain the central heating system before you replace the radiator.
The swimming pool drains very slowly.
Leave the dishes to drain.
We had to drain the oil out of the engine.
Drain off the excess fat from the meat.
She pulled out the plug and the water drained away.
(figurative) My anger slowly drained away.
The river drains into a lake.
All the colour drained from his face when I told him the news.
His face drained of colour.
In one gulp, he drained the glass.
She quickly drained the last of her drink.
My mother's hospital expenses were slowly draining my income.
an exhausting and draining experience
I felt drained of energy.
We had to call in a plumber to unblock the drain.
The drains (= the system of pipes) date from the beginning of the century.
Military spending is a huge drain on the country's resources.
a drainage system/channel/ditch
The area has good natural drainage.
She suddenly felt totally drained.
The experience left her emotionally drained.
a costume/historical, etc. drama
classical/Elizabethan/modern, etc. drama
a drama critic
drama school
a drama student
I studied English and Drama at college.
A powerful human drama was unfolding before our eyes.
You couldn't help being thrilled by the drama of the situation.
a dramatic increase/fall/change/improvement
dramatic results/developments/news
The announcement had a dramatic effect on house prices.
a dramatic victory
They watched dramatic pictures of the police raid on TV.
This is one of the most exciting developments in biology in recent years.
the heady days of youth
Don't miss next week's thrilling episode!
My first parachute jump was an exhilarating experience.
a local dramatic society
He flung out his arms in a dramatic gesture.
Don't be so dramatic!
Prices have fallen dramatically.
Events could have developed in a dramatically different way.
'At last!' she cried dramatically.
Don't worry too much about what she said—she tends to dramatize things.
a television dramatization of the trial
a TV dramatist
She had a shawl draped around her shoulders.
He draped his coat over the back of the chair.
She draped a cover over the old sofa.
walls draped in ivy
His arm was draped casually around her shoulders.
blue velvet drapes
a cradle swathed in draperies and blue ribbon
drastic measures/changes
The government is threatening to take drastic action.
a drastic shortage of food
Talk to me before you do anything drastic.
Output has been drastically reduced.
Things have started to go drastically wrong.
Drat! I forgot my key.
This dratted pen won't work.
There's a draught in here.
A cold draught of air blew in from the open window.
I was sitting in a draught.
He took a deep draught of his beer.
a sleeping draught (= one that makes you sleep)
This beer is not available on draught (= it is available only in bottles or cans).
draught beer
a draught horse
a draughty room/corridor
He's a poor draughtsman.
You have to admire her superb draughtsmanship.
You draw beautifully.
to draw a picture/diagram/graph
She drew a house.
He drew a circle in the sand with a stick.
(figurative) The report drew a grim picture of inefficiency and corruption.
He drew the cork out of the bottle.
I drew my chair up closer to the fire.
She drew me onto the balcony.
I tried to draw him aside (= for example where I could talk to him privately).
(figurative) My eyes were drawn to the man in the corner.
The Queen's coach was drawn by six horses.
The blinds were drawn.
It was getting dark so I switched on the light and drew the curtains.
She drew back the curtains and let the sunlight in.
The train drew into the station.
The train drew in.
The figures in the distance seemed to be drawing closer.
Their car drew alongside ours.
(figurative) Her retirement is drawing near.
(figurative) The meeting was drawing to a close.
She drew a revolver on me.
He came towards them with his sword drawn.
The movie is drawing large audiences.
The course draws students from all over the country.
Her screams drew passers-by to the scene.
The plan has drawn a lot of criticism.
The announcement drew loud applause from the audience.
Spielberg refused to be drawn on his next movie.
What conclusions did you draw from the report?
We can draw some lessons for the future from this accident.
to draw an analogy/a comparison/a parallel/a distinction between two events
We drew for partners.
They had to draw lots to decide who would go.
He drew the winning ticket.
Names were drawn from a hat for the last few places.
Italy has been drawn against Spain in the first round.
Italy has been drawn to play Spain.
England and France drew.
England and France drew 3–3.
England drew with/against France.
England drew their game against France.
I drew out £200.
Can I draw $80 out of my account?
She went to the post office to draw her pension.
The cheque was drawn on his personal account.
to draw water from a well
The device draws gas along the pipe.
He drew thoughtfully on his pipe.
She breathed deeply, drawing in the fresh mountain air.
I don't mind helping, but I draw the line at doing everything myself.
We would have liked to invite all our relatives, but you have to draw the line somewhere.
Where do you draw the line between genius and madness?
I drew the short straw and had to clean the toilets.
We drew straws for who went first.
He came close but she drew back.
We drew back from taking our neighbours to court.
There are many life events that can unexpectedly draw down savings.
If we don't cut costs our reserves will draw down.
The company has already drawn down €600 million of its €725 million credit line.
They can draw down on the loan at any time.
to draw support/comfort/strength from your family
She drew her inspiration from her childhood experiences.
The nights/days are drawing in.
youngsters drawn into a life of crime
The book starts slowly, but it gradually draws you in.
The doctor drew off some fluid to relieve the pressure.
Night was drawing on.
I'll have to draw on my savings.
The novelist draws heavily on her personal experiences.
The days/evenings are drawing out.
She drew the interview out to over an hour.
The cab drew up outside the house.
to draw up a contract/list
the draw for the second round of the Champions League
The draw for the raffle takes place on Saturday.
The match ended in a two-all draw.
He managed to hold Smith to a draw (= to stop him from winning when he seemed likely to do so).
a prize draw
Liverpool have an away draw against Manchester United.
There are only two seeded players left in the top half of the draw.
She is currently one of the biggest draws on the Irish music scene.
The main drawback to it is the cost.
This is the one major drawback of the new system.
The cold winter has led to a larger-than-expected drawdown on oil stocks.
a drawdown of cash from the company's reserves
in the top/middle/bottom drawer of the desk
a pencil/charcoal drawing
a drawing of a yacht
He did/made a drawing of the old farmhouse.
The children were drawing pictures of their pets.
a collection of paintings by American artists
Vermeer's 'Portrait of the artist in his studio'
a self-portrait(= a painting that you do of yourself)
a Renoir print
I usually do a few very rough sketches before I start on a painting.
I'm not very good at drawing.
technical drawing
It's just one of several projects on the drawing board.
'Hi there!' she drawled lazily.
He had a smooth drawling voice.
She spoke in a slow southern drawl.
They fasten with a drawstring.
This was the moment he had been dreading.
I dread being sick.
She dreads her husband finding out.
I dread to think what would happen if there really was a fire here.
I both hoped and dreaded that he would come.
The prospect of growing old fills me with dread.
She has an irrational dread of hospitals.
The committee members live in dread of (= are always worried about) anything that may cause a scandal.
My greatest dread is that my parents will find out.
The dreaded moment had finally arrived.
(humorous) Did I hear the dreaded word 'homework'?
What a dreadful thing to say!
It's dreadful the way they treat their staff.
How dreadful!
Jane looked dreadful (= looked ill or tired).
She's making a dreadful mess of things.
I'm afraid there's been a dreadful mistake.
a dreadful accident
They suffered dreadful injuries.
I'm dreadfully sorry.
I miss you dreadfully.
They suffered dreadfully during the war.
I had a vivid dream about my old school.
I thought someone came into the bedroom, but it was just a dream.
'Goodnight. Sweet dreams.'
Her lifelong dream was to be a famous writer.
He wanted to be rich but it was an impossible dream.
If I win, it will be a dream come true.
She tried to turn her dream of running her own business into reality.
a dream car/house/job, etc.
I've finally found the man of my dreams.
a chance to fulfil a childhood dream
It was the end of all my hopes and dreams.
She walked around in a dream all day.
That meal was an absolute dream.
My new car goes like a dream.
'I'll be a manager before I'm 30.' 'In your dreams.'
In broad daylight the events of the night before seemed like a bad dream.
Did I talk in my sleep? I must have been dreaming.
I dreamt about you last night.
Did it really happen or did I just dream it?
I dreamt (that) I got the job.
She dreams of running her own business.
It was the kind of trip most of us only dream about.
I wouldn't dream of going without you (= I would never go without you).
Who'd have dreamt it? They're getting married.
I never dreamt (that) I'd actually get the job.
Trust you to dream up a crazy idea like this!
Dreamers do not always remember their dreams.
She had a dreamy look in her eyes.
Paul was dreamy and not very practical.
He moved in the dreamy way of a man in a state of shock.
a slow, dreamy melody
What's he like? I bet he's really dreamy.
You must be living in dreamland if you think he'll change his mind.
If he thinks it's easy to get a job, he's living in a dreamworld.
a dreary winter's day
a dreary film
a long and dreary journey on the train
The movie is utter dreck.
They're dredging the harbour so that larger ships can use it.
They dredge the bay for gravel.
waste dredged (up) from the seabed
Dredge the top of the cake with icing sugar.
The papers keep trying to dredge up details of his past love life.
Now she was dredging up memories from the depths of her mind.
coffee dregs
the dregs of society
the last dregs of daylight
dreich weather on the Scottish coast
We were caught in the storm and got drenched to the skin.
His face was drenched with sweat.
(figurative) She drenched herself in perfume.
a long white dress
a wedding dress
to wear casual/formal dress
He has no dress sense (= no idea of how to dress well).
I dressed quickly.
She dressed the children in their best clothes.
Get up and get dressed!
to dress well/badly/fashionably/comfortably
You should dress for cold weather today.
She always dressed entirely in black.
He was dressed as a woman (= he was wearing women's clothes).
Do they expect us to dress for dinner?
He dresses many of Hollywood's most famous young stars.
The nurse will dress that cut for you.
to dress a salad (= put oil or vinegar, etc. on it)
to dress a chicken (= take out the parts you cannot eat)
to dress a shop window (= arrange a display of clothes or goods in it)
Kids love dressing up.
The boys were all dressed up as pirates.
(BrE) dressing-up clothes
(NAmE) dress-up clothes
However much you try to dress it up, office work is not glamorous.
The company has a strict dress code—all male employees are expected to wear suits.
(figurative) The earlier protests had just been dress rehearsals for full-scale revolution.
Hurry up and get dressed.
fully dressed
I can't go to the door—I'm not dressed yet.
smartly dressed
The bride was dressed in white.
He was casually dressed in jeans and a T-shirt.
a snappy dresser
Many of our patients need help with dressing.
Melted wax dribbled down the side of the candle.
Dribble a little olive oil over the salad.
She dribbled the ball the length of the field.
He dribbled past two defenders and scored a magnificent goal.
a dribble of blood
Add just a dribble of oil.
There was dribble all down the baby's front.
Is my shirt dry yet?
Store onions in a cool dry place.
I'm afraid this cake has turned out very dry.
Her mouth felt as dry as a bone (= completely dry).
When the paint is completely dry, apply another coat.
It was high summer and the rivers were dry (= had no water in them).
weeks of hot dry weather
the dry season
I hope it stays dry for our picnic.
Rattlesnakes occur in the warmer, drier parts of North America.
a shampoo for dry hair
a dry hacking cough
Breakfast consisted of dry bread and a cup of tea.
a crisp dry white wine
a dry sherry
He was a man of few words with a delightful dry sense of humour.
a dry voice
Government reports tend to make dry reading.
We had a dry wedding (= no alcoholic drinks were served).
a dry county/state
I'm a bit dry.
This is dry work.
There wasn't a dry eye in the house when they announced their engagement.
The wells in most villages in the region have run dry.
Vaccine supplies started to run dry as the flu outbreak reached epidemic proportions.
Their yacht was left high and dry on a sandbank.
Be careful. The paint hasn't dried yet.
You wash the dishes and I'll dry.
Use this towel to dry your hands.
dry your hair
to dry your eyes/tears (= stop crying)
We went swimming and then lay in the sun to dry off.
We dried our boots off by the fire.
He went to an expensive clinic to dry out.
Water the plant regularly, never letting the soil dry out.
Hot sun and cold winds can soon dry out your skin.
During the drought the river dried up.
As she got older, offers of modelling work began to dry up.
I'll wash and you can dry up.
a population drift away from rural areas
attempts to halt the drift towards war
the general direction of drift on the east coast
He knew the hidden drifts in that part of the river.
The road was blocked by deep drifts of snow.
Plant daffodils in informal drifts.
Do you catch my drift?
My German isn't very good, but I got the drift of what she said.
Clouds drifted across the sky.
The empty boat drifted out to sea.
The crowd drifted away from the scene of the accident.
Her gaze drifted around the room.
I didn't intend to be a teacher—I just drifted into it.
He hasn't decided what to do yet—he's just drifting.
The conversation drifted onto politics.
Finally she drifted into sleep.
The injured man tried to speak but soon drifted into unconsciousness.
drifting sand
Some roads are closed because of drifting.
The logs are drifted downstream to the mill.
As children we were very close, but as we grew up we just drifted apart.
I didn't hear the storm. I must have drifted off by then.
an electric drill
a pneumatic drill
a hand drill
a dentist's drill
a drill bit (= the pointed part at the end of the drill )
a fire drill
rifle drill
What's the drill for claiming expenses?
Drill a series of holes in the frame.
They're drilling for oil off the Irish coast.
He drilled through the wall by mistake.
The children were drilled to leave the classroom quickly when the fire bell rang.
a well-drilled team
Recruits are drilled in basic techniques over the five-day course.
Navigation is good and there's a display to show how far you've drilled down.
It was drilled into us at an early age never to drop litter.
'That's a lovely purple suit you're wearing,' she said drily.
He smiled drily and leaned back in his chair.
She coughed drily.
He swallowed drily and nodded.
Can I have a drink?
soft drinks (= cold drinks without alcohol)
a drink of water
food and drink
She took a drink from the glass and then put it down.
They went for a drink.
The drinks are on me (= I'll pay for them).
I need a stiff drink (= a very strong drink).
(BrE) He's got a drink problem.
(NAmE) He has a drinking problem.
(humorous) The children are enough to drive me to drink.
(BrE) They came home the worse for drink (= drunk).
She took to drink (= often drank too much alcohol) after her marriage broke up.
Would you like to come for drinks on Sunday?
a drinks party
What would you like to drink?
In hot weather, drink plenty of water.
I don't drink coffee.
He was drinking straight from the bottle.
He doesn't drink.
Don't drink and drive (= drive a car after drinking alcohol).
She's been drinking heavily since she lost her job.
I drank far too much last night.
He had drunk himself unconscious on vodka.
We just stood there drinking in the scenery.
All raise your glasses and drink to Katie and Tom!
Drink up and let's go.
Come on, drink up your juice.
a very drinkable wine
a heavy/moderate drinker
a coffee drinker
Drinking is not advised during pregnancy.
There are tough penalties for drinking and driving.
She was hot and sweat dripped into her eyes.
Water was dripping down the walls.
The tap was dripping.
Her hair dripped down her back.
Be careful, you're dripping paint everywhere!
The trees were dripping with fruit.
His voice dripped sarcasm.
The silence was broken only by the steady drip, drip of water from the roof.
We put a bucket under the hole in the roof to catch the drips.
She's been put on a drip.
Don't be such a drip—come and join in the fun!
the steady drip feed of leaked documents in the papers
her drippy boyfriend
drippy paint
a drippy nose (= with drops of liquid falling from it)
Her face was dripping with sweat.
His clothes were still dripping wet.
(figurative) His wife came in, dripping with diamonds.
Can you drive?
Don't drive so fast!
I drove to work this morning.
Shall we drive (= go there by car) or go by train?
He drives a taxi (= that is his job).
Could you drive me home?
What car do you drive?
a steam-driven locomotive
The urge to survive drove them on.
You're driving yourself too hard.
to drive sb crazy/mad/insane
Hunger drove her to steal.
Those kids are driving me to despair.
(humorous) It's enough to drive you to drink (= to make you start drinking too much alcohol).
to drive sheep into a field
The enemy was driven back.
This is the main factor driving investment in the area.
to drive a nail into a piece of wood
They drove a tunnel through the solid rock.
to drive the ball into the rough (= in golf )
Huge waves drove the yacht onto the rocks.
The waves drove against the shore.
You will really need to drive your point home.
I wish I knew what they were driving at.
We heard him drive away.
Someone drove the car away in the night.
Her constant nagging drove him away.
Terrorist threats are driving away tourists.
The robbers drove off in a stolen vehicle.
The defenders drove off each attack.
Don't stop—drive on!
New fashions drive out old ones.
Let's go for a drive.
It's a three-hour drive to London.
the drive shaft
a car with four-wheel drive
a left-/right-hand drive car (= a car where the driver and the controls are on the left/right)
There were two cars parked in/on the drive.
a recruitment/export/economy drive
a drive for greater efficiency
the government's drive to reduce energy consumption
a strong sexual drive
He'll do very well—he has tremendous drive.
She has a strong forehand drive (= in tennis ).
He scored with a brilliant 25-yard drive.
a 750GB hard drive
a CD drive
21 Island Heights Drive
a drive-time radio show
a drive-by killing
We stopped at a drive-in for a hamburger.
drive-in movies
How can you watch that drivel on TV?
a market-driven economy
a character-driven movie
a bus/a train/an ambulance/a taxi driver
She climbed into the driver's seat.
(BrE) a learner driver (= one who has not yet passed a driving test)
(NAmE) a student driver
The car comes equipped with a driver's airbag.
Housing is a key driver of the economy.
There was a car parked in/on the driveway.
dangerous driving
driving lessons
Who was the driving force (= the person with the strongest influence) in the band?
a dull, drizzly morning
the distant drone of traffic
A plane was droning in the distance.
a droning voice
The dog was drooling at the mouth.
teenagers drooling over photos of movie stars
She was so tired, her eyelids were beginning to droop.
Our spirits drooped when we heard the news.
the slight droop of her mouth
a droopy moustache
The climber slipped and dropped to his death.
Be careful not to drop that plate.
He staggered in and dropped into a chair.
Medical supplies are being dropped into the stricken area.
(BrE) He dropped his trousers (= undid them and let them fall).
(NAmE) He dropped his pants.
I feel ready to drop.
She expects everyone to work till they drop.
The temperature has dropped considerably.
At last the wind dropped.
His voice dropped to a whisper.
The Dutch team have dropped to fifth place.
The price of shares dropped by 14p.
Shares dropped in price by 14p.
She dropped her voice dramatically.
You must drop your speed in built-up areas.
Her eyes dropped to her lap.
In front of them the valley dropped sharply away from the road.
Can you drop me near the bank?
You left your jacket, but I can drop it off on my way to work tomorrow.
Drop me a line when you get there.
She's been dropped from the team because of injury.
He spoke with a cockney accent and dropped his aitches (= did not pronounce the letter 'h' at the start of words).
She's dropped most of her old friends.
I dropped German (= stopped studying it) when I was 14.
Drop everything and come at once!
Look, can we just drop it (= stop talking about it)?
I think we'd better drop the subject.
Let's drop the formalities—please call me Mike.
The police decided to drop the charges against her.
I suggest we let the matter drop.
He let it drop that the Prime Minister was a close friend of his.
The audience was so quiet you could have heard a pin drop.
They dropped the problem firmly back in my lap.
My dream job just fell into my lap.
She could feel the tension drop away.
We cannot afford to drop behind our competitors.
Drop by sometime.
I thought I'd drop in on you while I was passing.
Sorry we're late—we dropped into the pub on the way.
I dropped off and missed the end of the film.
Traffic in the town has dropped off since the bypass opened.
He has dropped out of active politics.
a word that has dropped out of the language
She started a degree but dropped out after only a year.
drops of rain
a drop of blood
Could I have a drop more milk in my coffee, please?
I haven't touched a drop (= drunk any alcohol) all evening.
a drop in prices/temperature, etc.
a dramatic/sharp drop in profits
a five per cent drop
There was a sheer drop of fifty metres to the rocks below.
a twenty-foot drop
eye drops
Aid agencies are organizing food drops to civilians in the war zone.
a parachute drop
fruit drops
cough drops (= sweets/candy to help a cough)
a drop-dead gorgeous Hollywood star
a drop-in centre
college dropouts
a university with a high dropout rate
mass-produced dross
The well-written dialogue separates this film from the usual teenage dross.
two years of severe drought
one of the worst droughts on record
droves of tourists
People were leaving the countryside in droves to look for work in the cities.
Two children drowned after falling into the river.
He had attempted to rescue the drowning man.
She tried to drown herself.
He was drowned at sea.
They had drowned the unwanted kittens.
The fruit was drowned in cream.
She turned up the radio to drown out the noise from next door.
death by drowning
Alcohol plays a part in an estimated 30% of drownings.
The tablets may make you feel drowsy.
a drowsy afternoon in the sunshine
The drugs tend to cause drowsiness.
We gave them a drubbing in the match on Saturday.
He does not smoke or take drugs.
teenagers experimenting with drugs
I found out Steve was on drugs (= regularly used drugs).
drug and alcohol abuse
a hard (= very harmful) drug such as heroin
a soft drug (= one that is not considered very harmful)
Drugs have been seized with a street value of two million dollars.
She was a drug addict (= could not stop using drugs).
He was charged with pushing drugs (= selling them).
(informal) I don't do drugs (= use them).
drug rehabilitation
prescribed drugs
The doctor put me on a course of pain-killing drugs.
drug companies
The drug has some bad side effects.
He was drugged and bundled into the back of the car.
It's illegal to drug horses before a race.
Her drink must have been drugged.
They were feeling the effects of drinking and drugging all night.
during the 1990s
There are extra flights to Colorado during the winter.
Please remain seated during the performance.
He was taken to the hospital during the night.
I only saw her once during my stay in Rome.
I stayed in London for a week.
a bass drum
Tony Cox on drums
to play the drums
a regular drum beat
a 50 gallon drum
an oil drum
The mixture flows to a revolving drum where the water is filtered out.
Impatiently, he drummed his fingers on the table.
We had it drummed into us that we should never talk to strangers.
He had flown to the north of the country to drum up support for the campaign.
the steady drumming of the rain on the tin roof
a chicken/turkey drumstick
She was too drunk to remember anything about the party.
His only way of dealing with his problems was to go out and get drunk.
They got drunk on vodka.
Police arrested him for being drunk and disorderly (= violent or noisy in a public place because of being drunk).
drunk with success
He spent the night in the drunk tank.
a drunken driver
She was often beaten by her drunken husband.
He came home to find her in a drunken stupor.
He staggered drunkenly to his feet.
a dry goods store
It was a great relief to be back on dry land after such a rough crossing.
This garment must be dry-cleaned only.
She remained dry-eyed throughout the trial.
dry-roasted peanuts
a hairdryer
This age group is the target group du jour.
What is the Internet phenomenon du jour?
his dual role as composer and conductor
She has dual nationality (= is a citizen of two different countries).
The piece of furniture serves a dual purpose as a cupboard and as a table.
a dual-control vehicle
a dual-purpose vehicle (= for carrying passengers or goods)
The Belgian actor Jean–Claude Van Damme has been dubbed 'Muscles from Brussels'.
an American movie dubbed into Italian
I was rather dubious about the whole idea.
They indulged in some highly dubious business practices to obtain their current position in the market.
They consider the plan to be of dubious benefit to most families.
(ironic) She had the dubious honour of being the last woman to be hanged in England (= it was not an honour at all).
the Duchess of York
wild ducks
duck eggs
roast duck with orange sauce
Anything else, duck?
He was out for a duck.
He had to duck as he came through the door.
We ducked down behind the wall so they wouldn't see us.
He just managed to duck out of sight.
She ducked her head and got into the car.
He ducked the first few blows then started to fight back.
She ducked into the adjoining room as we came in.
It's his turn to cook dinner, but I bet he'll try to duck out of it.
The government is ducking the issue.
The kids were ducking each other in the pool.
Everything is just ducky.
a heating/ventilation duct
the bile duct
a short piece of ducting
Two of the fireworks in the box were duds.
a dud battery
a dud cheque (= written by sb who has not enough money in their bank account)
He's a real cool dude.
Hey, dude, what's up?
He stomped out of the room in high dudgeon.
The team's success was largely due to her efforts.
Most of the problems were due to human error.
The project had to be abandoned due to a lack of government funding.
When's the baby due?
The next train is due in five minutes.
(especially NAmE) My essay's due next Friday (= it has to be given to the teacher by then).
Rose is due to start school in January.
The band's first album is due for release later this month.
Payment is due on 1 October.
Have they been paid the money that is due to them?
Our thanks are due to the whole team.
I'm still due 15 days' leave.
She's due for promotion soon.
After due consideration, we have decided to appoint Mr Davis to the job.
to make due allowance for sth
(BrE) He was charged with driving without due care and attention.
With all due respect, the figures simply do not support you on this.
He received a large reward, which was no more than his due (= than what he deserved).
She's a slow worker, but to give her her due (= to be fair to her), she does try very hard.
to pay your dues
to sail due east
The village lies five miles due north of York.
to fight/win a duel
to challenge sb to a duel
a verbal duel
The two men duelled to the death.
The document was duly signed by the inspector.
They duly arrived at 9.30 in spite of torrential rain.
a piano duet
He sold me a duff radio.
He got her up the duff.
the Duke of Edinburgh
I thought I recognized your dulcet tones (= the sound of your voice).
The first half of the game was pretty dull.
There's never a dull moment when John's around.
a dull grey colour
dull, lifeless hair
Her eyes were dull.
It was a dull, grey day.
The gates shut behind him with a dull thud.
a dull ache/pain
a dull pupil
Don't sell into a dull market.
'I suppose so,' she said dully.
His leg ached dully.
The tablets they gave him dulled the pain for a while.
He felt dulled and stupid with sleep.
His eyes dulled and he slumped to the ground.
The endless rain seemed to dull all sound.
She was born deaf and dumb.
We were all struck dumb with amazement.
We sat there in dumb silence.
That was a pretty dumb thing to do.
If the police question you, act dumb (= pretend you do not know anything).
In her early movies she played a dumb blonde.
'Are you all right?' Laura nodded dumbly.
His reply dumbfounded me.
The news left her dumbfounded.
a tailor's dummy
Don't just stand there, you dummy.
a dummy bomb
She dummied a shot that brought the goalie to her knees.
He dummied past five defenders, then shot at the near post.
Too much toxic waste is being dumped at sea.
The dead body was just dumped by the roadside.
He's got no right to keep dumping his problems on me.
Just dump your stuff over there—we'll sort it out later.
Did you hear he's dumped his girlfriend?
(BrE) a rubbish dump
(NAmE) a garbage dump
the municipal dump
a toxic/nuclear waste dump
How can you live in this dump?
an ammunition dump
to have a dump
a ban on the dumping of radioactive waste at sea
chicken with herb dumplings
apple dumplings
cow dung
a pair of dungarees
His dungarees were covered in grease.
She sat reading a magazine, dunking cookies in her coffee.
The camera survived being dunked in the river.
the comedy duo Laurel and Hardy
a duodenal ulcer
They soon realized they had been duped.
He was duped into giving them his credit card.
a duplicated form
There's no point in duplicating work already done.
a duplicate invoice
Is this a duplicate or the original?
to prepare a contract in duplicate
durable plastics
negotiations for a durable peace
the durability of gold
The school was used as a hospital for the duration of the war.
a contract of three years' duration
He signed the confession under duress.
The street lights go on at dusk.
the dusky light inside the cave
dusky pink
A cloud of dust rose as the truck drove off.
The workers wear masks to avoid inhaling the dust.
The books were all covered with dust.
There wasn't a speck of dust anywhere in the room.
That guitar's been sitting gathering dust (= not being used) for years now.
coal/gold dust
I broke the vase while I was dusting.
Could you dust the sitting room?
She dusted some ash from her sleeve.
Dust the cake with sugar.
Mel stood up and dusted herself down.
(figurative) For the concert, he dusted off some of his old hits.
a dusty road
piles of dusty books
dusty pink
It is my duty to report it to the police.
Local councillors have a duty to serve the community.
I don't want you to visit me simply out of a sense of duty.
your duties as a parent
to do your duty for your country
Report for duty at 8 a.m.
I spend a lot of my time on administrative duties.
Your duties will include setting up a new computer system.
customs/excise/import duties
duty on wine and beer
Who's on duty today?
What time do you go off duty?
A policeman was injured in the line of duty yesterday.
a dutiful daughter/son/wife
I felt duty-bound to help him.
duty-free cigarettes
We bought a load of duty-frees (= duty-free goods) at the airport.
a duvet cover (= a cover that you can wash, that you put over a duvet )
a DVD drive
Is it available on DVD yet?
I was in a complete dwaal.
dwarf conifers
The old houses were dwarfed by the huge new tower blocks.
the dwarf planets Pluto, Ceres, Eris, Makemake and Haumea
For ten years she dwelled among the nomads of North America.
So you made a mistake, but there's no need to dwell on it.
apartment dwellers
The development will consist of 66 dwellings and a number of offices.
dwindling audiences
Support for the party has dwindled away to nothing.
Membership of the club has dwindled from 70 to 20.
to dye fabric
She dyed her hair blonde.
black dye
hair dye
natural/chemical/vegetable dyes
dyed-in-the-wool traditionalists
I will remember it to my dying day.
her dying wishes/words
doctors who care for the dying
the dynamics of political change
group dynamics (= the way in which members of a group react to each other)
fluid dynamics
a dynamic leader
a stick of dynamite
The abortion issue is political dynamite.
Their new album is dynamite.
the team's midfield dynamo
She's a human dynamo.
He's suffering from sexual dysfunction caused by depression.
a tale of loneliness and family dysfunction
He's dyslexic.
writing courses for dyslexics
'Egg' begins with (an) E/'E'.
He got an E in/for French.
E Asia
She had taken an E.
e-commerce
e-business
We use e-learning to deliver online training to our employees.
an e-learning course/module/platform
This sauce is full of E-numbers.
E-tailing in the US broke all records last year.
America's leading e-tailers
Motorists are fined if they fail to pay their e-tolls within a week.
the e-tolling system
popular pets, e.g. cats and dogs
Each answer is worth 20 points.
Each of the answers is worth 20 points.
The answers are worth 20 points each.
'Red or blue?' 'I'll take one of each, please.'
We each have our own car.
There aren't enough books for everyone to have one each.
They lost $40 each.
Each day that passed he grew more and more desperate.
Each student has been given his or her own email address.
Each student has been given their own email address.
They each have their own email address.
Every student in the class is capable of passing the exam.
Each (one) of the houses was slightly different.
I bought a dozen eggs and every one of them was bad.
Don and Susie really loved each other (= he loved her and she loved him).
They looked at each other and laughed.
We can wear each other's clothes.
She put £5 each way on the favourite.
an each-way bet
eager crowds outside the stadium
She is eager for (= wants very much to get) her parents' approval.
Everyone in the class seemed eager to learn.
They're eager to please (= wanting to be helpful).
the band's eagerly awaited new CD
I couldn't hide my eagerness to get back home.
eagles soaring overhead
Nothing escaped our teacher's eagle eye.
An eagle-eyed tourist found the suspicious package.
the early morning
my earliest memories
The project is still in the early stages.
the early 1990s
in the early days of space exploration (= when it was just beginning)
The earliest possible date I can make it is the third.
He's in his early twenties.
Mozart's early works (= those written at the beginning of his career)
Early booking is essential, as space is limited.
You're early! I wasn't expecting you till seven.
The bus was ten minutes early.
an early breakfast
Let's make an early start tomorrow.
She's an early riser (= she gets up early in the morning).
He learnt to play the piano at an early age.
early potatoes (= that are ready to eat at the beginning of the season)
We worked well into the small hours.
The fighting began in the early hours of Saturday morning.
I've had a lot of late nights recently.
early in the week/year/season/morning
The best rooms go to those who book earliest.
We arrived early the next day.
He started writing music as early as 1989.
The bus came five minutes early.
I woke up early this morning.
The baby arrived earlier than expected.
As I mentioned earlier…
a week earlier
She had seen him earlier in the day.
I knew quite early on that I wanted to marry her.
The earliest we can finish is next Friday.
We can't finish before next Friday at the earliest.
an ear infection
the inner/outer ear
She whispered something in his ear.
He put his hands over his ears.
She's had her ears pierced.
The elephant flapped its ears.
He was always there with a sympathetic ear (= a willingness to listen to people).
a long-eared owl
You need a good ear to master the piano.
ears of corn
News of his affair eventually reached her ears.
Everything I tell them just goes in one ear and out the other.
He had the ear of the monarch.
I don't know what they'll want when they arrive—we'll have to play it by ear.
Her ears pricked up at the sound of his name.
His warning was still ringing in my ears.
an ear-piercing scream
to have (an) earache
a perforated eardrum
the Earl of Essex
an early warning of heart disease
an early warning system (= of enemy attack)
The money had been earmarked for spending on new school buildings.
The factory has been earmarked for closure.
She was earmarked early as a possible champion.
The incident has all the earmarks of a terrorist attack.
a pair of earmuffs
He earns about $40 000 a year.
She earned a living as a part-time secretary.
She must earn a fortune (= earn a lot of money).
All the children are earning now.
His victory in the tournament earned him $50 000.
Your money would earn more in a high-interest account.
He earned a reputation as an expert on tax law.
As a teacher, she had earned the respect of her students.
I need a rest. I think I've earned it, don't you?
She's having a well-earned rest this week.
His outstanding ability earned him a place on the team.
He felt he no longer deserved such a high salary. He just wasn't earning his keep.
high/low earners
Tourism is the country's biggest foreign currency earner.
(BrE, informal) Her new business has turned out to be a nice little earner.
an earnest young man
Despite her earnest efforts, she could not find a job.
The work on the house will begin in earnest on Monday.
You may laugh but I'm in deadly earnest.
I could tell she spoke in earnest.
a rise in average earnings
compensation for loss of earnings caused by the accident
people on low incomes
a weekly wage of £200
The job offers good rates of pay.
a rise in average earnings for factory workers
earnings per share
export earnings
an earnings-related pension scheme
a pair of earrings
We waited until Ted was safely out of earshot before discussing it.
As she came within earshot of the group, she heard her name mentioned.
the planet Earth
the history of life on earth
the earth's ozone layer
The earth revolves around the sun.
I must be the happiest person on earth!
After a week at sea, it was good to feel the earth beneath our feet again.
You could feel the earth shake as the truck came closer.
She was sitting on the floor watching TV.
I found her lying on the ground.
The rocket crashed a few seconds after it left the ground.
It was good to be back on dry land again.
They fought both at sea and on land.
You could feel the earth shake as the truck came closer.
a clod/lump/mound of earth
What on earth are you doing?
How on earth can she afford that?
Nothing on earth would persuade me to go with him.
an earth-shattering discovery
birds and their earthbound predators
earthen pots
an earthenware bowl
an earthy sense of humour
earthy colours
the sorrows of this earthly life
There's no earthly reason why you shouldn't go.
What earthly difference is my opinion going to make?
He didn't have an earthly chance of getting the job.
He passed the exam with ease.
The ease with which she learns languages is astonishing.
This computer is popular for its good design and ease of use.
All important points are numbered for ease of reference (= so that you can find them easily).
In his retirement, he lived a life of ease.
I felt ill at ease in such formal clothes.
The pain immediately eased.
This should help ease the pain.
The plan should ease traffic congestion in the town.
It would ease my mind (= make me less worried) to know that she was settled.
He eased slowly forwards.
She eased herself into a chair.
He eased off (= took off) his shoes.
Ramps have been built to ease access for the disabled.
Ease your grip on the wheel a little.
Share prices eased back from yesterday's levels.
We waited until the traffic had eased off.
Ease off the training a few days before the race.
an easy exam/job
He didn't make it easy for me to leave.
Their house isn't the easiest place to get to.
vegetables that are easy to grow
Several schools are within easy reach (= not far away).
It can't be easy for her, on her own with the children.
It's easy for you to tell me to keep calm, but you're not in my position.
I'll agree to anything for an easy life.
I don't feel easy about letting the kids go out alone.
She's an easy target for their criticisms.
The baby fish are easy prey for birds.
He had a very easy manner.
'Do you want to watch this or the news?' 'Oh, I'm easy. It's up to you.'
Life was never going to be so free and easy again.
They are anxious that the new course should not be seen as a soft option.
He decided to take the easy option and give them what they wanted.
The house is within easy reach of schools and sports facilities.
He will be given a rough ride at the party conference.
Easy with that chair—one of its legs is loose.
Go easy on her—she's having a really hard time at the moment.
Go easy on the sugar.
Talking about my problems doesn't come easy to me.
Take it easy! Don't panic.
The doctor told me to take it easy for a few weeks.
I can easily finish it tonight.
The museum is easily accessible by car.
Are you sure you locked the gate? You could easily have forgotten.
The situation might all too easily have become a disaster.
It's easily the best play I've seen this year.
I get bored easily.
He's easily distracted.
Which way is east?
A gale was blowing from the east.
a town to the east of (= further east than) Chicago
I was born in the East, but now live in San Francisco.
East-West relations
East Africa
They live on the east coast.
The house faces east.
He's a real East Ender.
eastbound traffic
the eastbound carriageway of the motorway
the Easter holidays/vacation
travelling in an easterly direction
a cold easterly wind
the easternmost city in Europe
eastern Spain
Eastern Europe
the eastern slopes of the mountain
Eastern cookery
to go/look/turn eastwards
in an eastward direction
to sit in an easy chair
I was too nervous to eat.
She doesn't eat sensibly (= doesn't eat food that is good for her).
I don't eat meat.
Would you like something to eat?
I couldn't eat another thing (= I have had enough food).
Where shall we eat tonight?
We ate at a pizzeria in town.
Look at him dance! Eat your heart out, Fred Astaire (= he dances even better than Fred Astaire).
She may be thin, but she eats like a horse.
She'll have them eating out of her hand in no time.
If she's here on time, I'll eat my hat!
The coastline is being eaten away year by year.
Woodworm had eaten away at the door frame.
His constant criticism ate away at her self-confidence.
Those repair bills have really eaten into my savings.
Rust had eaten into the metal.
Do you feel like eating out tonight?
Eat up! We've got to go out soon.
Come on. Eat up your potatoes.
She was eaten up by regrets.
Legal costs had eaten up all the savings she had.
We're not great meat eaters.
He's a big eater (= he eats a lot).
healthy eating
birds nesting under the eaves
We caught him eavesdropping outside the window.
He buys rare baseball cards on eBay.
the ebb tide
the ebb and flow of the seasons
She sat in silence enjoying the ebb and flow of conversation.
The pain was ebbing.
As night fell, our enthusiasm began to ebb away.
an ebony carving
ebony skin
The Prime Minister was in ebullient mood.
eccentric behaviour/clothes
an eccentric aunt
Most people considered him a harmless eccentric.
As a teacher, she had a reputation for eccentricity.
Arthur was noted for the eccentricity of his clothes.
We all have our little eccentricities.
They complained about the excessive noise coming from the upstairs flat.
The amounts she borrowed were not excessive.
Excessive drinking can lead to stomach disorders.
excessively high prices
She has very eclectic tastes in literature.
the lower/upper/top/higher echelons of the Civil Service
There was an echo on the phone and I couldn't hear clearly.
The hills sent back a faint echo.
the echo of footsteps running down the corridor
Yesterday's crash has grim echoes of previous disasters.
His words were an echo of what she had heard many times before.
The speech found an echo in the hearts of many of the audience (= they agreed with it).
Her footsteps echoed in the empty room.
The gunshot echoed through the forest.
The whole house echoed.
The street echoed with the cries of children.
The valley echoed back his voice.
This is a view echoed by many on the right of the party.
'He's gone!' Viv echoed.
echt Viennese cream cakes
an eclipse of the sun/moon
a total/partial eclipse
The election result marked the eclipse of the right wing.
Her work was in eclipse for most of the 20th century.
Though a talented player, he was completely eclipsed by his brother.
eco-friendly
eco-warriors (= people who protest about damage to the environment)
eco-terrorism (= the use of force or violent action in order to protest about damage to the environment)
eco-friendly products
We risk upsetting the ecological balance of the area.
an ecological disaster (= one that alters the whole balance of ecology in an area)
the ecological movement
The system is both practical and ecologically sound.
the ecological footprint of the average Canadian
plant/animal/human ecology
the ecology movement
Oil pollution could damage the fragile ecology of the coral reefs.
social, economic and political issues
economic growth/cooperation/development/reform
the government's economic policy
economic history
the current economic climate
the economic aspects of having children
It is usually economical to buy washing powder in large quantities.
The economy is in recession.
the world economy
a market economy (= one in which the price is fixed according to both cost and demand)
Ireland was one of the fastest-growing economies in Western Europe in the 1990s.
We need to make substantial economies.
It's a false economy to buy cheap clothes (= it seems cheaper but it is not really since they do not last very long).
She writes with a great economy of words (= using only the necessary words).
(BrE) We're on an economy drive at home (= trying to avoid waste and spend as little money as possible).
Buy the large economy pack (= the one that gives you better value for money).
to fly economy (class) (= by the cheapest class of air travel)
an economy fare (= the cheapest)
They claimed they were political refugees and not economic migrants.
an economical car to run (= one that does not use too much petrol/gas)
It would be more economical to buy the bigger size.
an economical use of space
an economical prose style (= one that uses no unnecessary words)
He was economical in all areas of his life.
The factory is no longer economically viable.
Economically, the centre of Spain has lost its dominant role.
the economically active/inactive population (= those who are employed or available for work/those who are not)
I'll do the job as economically as possible.
The design is intended to use space as economically as possible.
She writes elegantly and economically.
He studied politics and economics at Yale.
Keynesian/Marxist economics
The economics of the project are very encouraging.
Old people often try to economize on heating, thus endangering their health.
Sally was ecstatic about her new job.
ecstatic applause/praise/reviews
The kids were excited about the holiday.
I was elated with the thrill of success.
My euphoric mood could not last.
He was greeted with rapturous applause.
She felt exhilarated with the speed.
'Eighteenth Century Women Poets', Ed. Lonsdale
7th ed.
The waves swirled and eddied around the rocks.
He stood on the edge of the cliff.
a big house on/at the edge of town
Don't put that glass so near the edge of the table.
I sat down at the water's edge.
Stand the coin on its edge.
Be careful—it has a sharp edge.
They had brought the country to the edge of disaster.
The company needs to improve its competitive edge.
They have the edge on us.
Her show now has a hard political edge to it.
He did his best to remain calm, but there was a distinct edge to his voice.
a lace-edged handkerchief
The game had the crowd on the edge of their seats.
The sandwich took the edge off my appetite.
Support for the leader was fraying at the edges.
The ballet still had some rough edges.
He had a few rough edges knocked off at school.
Just the sound of her voice sets my teeth on edge.
She edged a little closer to me.
I edged nervously past the dog.
Emily edged her chair forward.
The handkerchief is edged with lace.
Prices edged up 2% in the year to December.
She was edged out of the company by the new director.
You'll only get the desk through the door if you turn it edgeways.
She's been very edgy lately.
After the recent unrest there is an edgy calm in the capital.
a clever, edgy film
'I'm not sure I can make it tomorrow,' he said edgily.
The food at the hotel was barely edible.
edible fungi/snails/flowers
The books were intended for the edification of the masses.
an imposing edifice
(figurative) an edifice of lies
I know that this draft text will need to be edited.
This is the edited version of my speech (= some parts have been taken out).
He's editing a book of essays by Isaiah Berlin.
You can download the file and edit it on your computer.
They're showing the edited highlights of last month's game.
She used to edit a women's magazine.
I had time to do a quick edit of my essay before handing it in.
They edited out references to her father in the interview.
an editable document
a paperback/hardback edition
She collects first editions of Victorian novels.
the online edition of 'The Guardian'
Tonight's edition of 'Panorama' looks at unemployment.
The dictionary is now in its ninth edition.
The article appeared in the evening edition of 'The Mercury'.
the editor of 'The Washington Post'
the sports/financial/fashion, etc. editor
our economics editor
She's the editor of a new collection of ghost stories.
the editorship of 'The Times'
the magazine's editorial staff
an editorial decision
He accused the BBC of editorializing in its handling of the story.
Yesterday the 'Washington Post' editorialized on this subject.
She was educated in the US.
He was educated at his local comprehensive school and then at Oxford.
Children need to be educated on the dangers of drug-taking.
The campaign is intended to educate the public to respect the environment.
privately educated children
a British-educated lawyer
He's a Princeton-educated Texan.
an educated and articulate person
the educated elite
He spoke in an educated voice.
primary/elementary education
secondary education
further/higher/post-secondary education
students in full-time education
adult education classes
a college/university education
the state education system
a man of little education
She completed her formal education in 1995.
health education
the Education Department
the Department of Health, Education and Welfare
There should be closer links between education and industry.
a College of Education
a Bachelor of Education degree
She's an education major.
The rock concert was quite an education for my parents!
children with special educational needs
an educational psychologist
an educational visit
educational games/toys (= that teach you sth as well as amusing you)
Watching television can be very educational.
Children living in inner-city areas may be educationally disadvantaged.
(old-fashioned) educationally subnormal
the educative role of the community
adult educators (= who teach adults)
an Edwardian terraced house
Eek! It moved!
She managed to eke out her student loan till the end of the year.
jellied eels
an eerie yellow light
I found the silence underwater really eerie.
improvements in efficiency at the factory
I was impressed by the efficiency with which she handled the crisis.
We are looking at our business to see where savings and efficiencies can be made.
an efficient secretary
efficient heating equipment
the efficient use of energy
As we get older, our bodies become less efficient at burning up calories.
fuel-efficient cars (= that do not use much fuel)
a very efficiently organized event
the effect of heat on metal
dramatic/long-term effects
to learn to distinguish between cause and effect
the beneficial effects of exercise
Modern farming methods can have an adverse effect on the environment.
Her criticisms had the effect of discouraging him completely.
Despite her ordeal, she seems to have suffered no ill effects.
I can certainly feel the effects of too many late nights.
'I'm feeling really depressed.' 'The winter here has that effect sometimes.'
I tried to persuade him, but with little or no effect.
The overall effect of the painting is overwhelming.
The stage lighting gives the effect of a moonlit scene.
Add a scarf for a casual effect.
He only behaves like that for effect (= in order to impress people).
The insurance policy covers all baggage and personal effects.
In effect, the two systems are identical.
His wife had, in effect, run the government for the past six months.
These laws are in effect in twenty states.
The aspirins soon take effect.
The new law takes effect from tomorrow.
He left a note to the effect that he would not be coming back.
She told me to get out—or words to that effect.
We warned them, but to no effect.
The government has cut interest rates with effect from the beginning of next month.
to effect a cure/change/recovery
Long prison sentences can be a very effective deterrent for offenders.
Aspirin is a simple but highly effective treatment.
drugs that are effective against cancer
I admire the effective use of colour in her paintings.
the effective, if not the actual, leader of the party
He has now taken effective control of the country.
The new speed limit on this road becomes effective from 1 June.
to check the effectiveness of the security system
The company must reduce costs to compete effectively.
You dealt with the situation very effectively.
He was very polite but effectively he was telling me that I had no chance of getting the job.
an effectual remedy
They hope the new drug will prove especially efficacious in the relief of pain.
stone effigies in the church
The demonstrators burned a crude effigy of the president.
You should put more effort into your work.
A lot of effort has gone into making this event a success.
It's a long climb to the top, but well worth the effort.
Getting up this morning was quite an effort (= it was difficult).
(BrE) With (an) effort (= with difficulty) she managed to stop herself laughing.
a determined/real/special effort
to make an effort
I didn't really feel like going out, but I am glad I made the effort.
The company has laid off 150 workers in an effort to save money.
The local clubs are making every effort to interest more young people.
We need to make a concerted effort to finish on time.
I spent hours cleaning the house, but there isn't much to show for all my efforts.
With an effort of will he resisted the temptation.
The project was a joint/group effort.
the Russian space effort
the United Nations' peacekeeping effort
I'm afraid this essay is a poor effort.
She dances with effortless grace.
He made playing the guitar look effortless.
an effusive welcome
He was effusive in his praise.
He described himself as 'an egalitarian'.
The female sits on the eggs until they hatch.
The fish lay thousands of eggs at one time.
crocodile eggs
a boiled egg
bacon and eggs
fried/poached/scrambled eggs
Bind the mixture together with a little beaten egg.
You've got some egg on your shirt.
egg yolks/whites
egg noodles
ducks'/quails' eggs
a chocolate egg (= made from chocolate in the shape of an egg)
The male sperm fertilizes the female egg.
an egg donor
They were left with egg on their faces when only ten people showed up.
He hit the other boy again and again as his friends egged him on.
He has the biggest ego of anyone I've ever met.
Winning the prize really boosted her ego.
'I'm not hungry.' 'Eh?' 'I said I'm not hungry.'
So what do you think, eh?
Another new dress, eh!
Eina! That was sore!
You can park on either side of the street.
You can keep one of the photos. Either of them—whichever you like.
There are two types of qualification—either is acceptable.
Neither candidate was selected for the job.
Neither of my parents speaks/speak a foreign language.
The offices on either side were empty.
There's a door at either end of the corridor.
Pete can't go and I can't either.
(NAmE, informal) 'I don't like it.' 'Me either.' (= Neither do I).
I know a good Italian restaurant. It's not far from here, either.
Well, I think she's either Czech or Slovak.
I'm going to buy either a camera or a DVD player with the money.
Either he could not come or he did not want to.
Was it his fault or not? Either way, an explanation is due.
We could meet today or tomorrow—I don't mind one way or the other.
premature ejaculation
Police ejected a number of violent protesters from the hall.
Used cartridges are ejected from the gun after firing.
elaborate designs
She had prepared a very elaborate meal.
an elaborate computer system
an elaborately decorated room
He said he was resigning but did not elaborate on his reasons.
She went on to elaborate her argument.
In his plays he takes simple traditional tales and elaborates them.
The importance of the plan needs no further elaboration.
Many years elapsed before they met again.
This skirt needs some new elastic in the waist.
an elastic headband
elastic materials
Our plans are fairly elastic.
a skirt with an elasticated waist
They were elated at the result.
I was elated by the prospect of the new job ahead.
She jabbed him with her elbow.
He's fractured his elbow.
The jacket was worn at the elbows.
She elbowed me out of the way to get to the front of the line.
He elbowed his way through the crowd.
my elder brother
his elder sister
the elder of their two sons
the elder Pitt
Pitt the elder
Children have no respect for their elders nowadays.
the village elders (= the old and respected people of the village)
He is her elder by several years.
an elder statesman of golf
nursing homes and other eldercare facilities
an elderly couple
elderly relatives
Tom is my eldest son.
the eldest of their three children
an eldritch screech
an elected assembly/leader/representative
the newly elected government
She became the first black woman to be elected to the Senate.
He was elected (as) MP for Oxford East.
Increasing numbers of people elect to work from home nowadays.
the president elect
election campaigns/results
(especially BrE) How many candidates are standing for election?
(especially NAmE) to run for election
to win/lose an election
to fight an election
to vote in an election
In America, presidential elections are held every four years.
The prime minister is about to call (= announce) an election.
We welcome his election as president.
a year after her election to the committee
an elective democracy
an elective assembly
an elective member
He had never held elective office (= a position which is filled by election).
an elective body
elective surgery
electoral systems/reforms
an electorally effective campaign
Only 60% of the electorate voted in the last election.
an electrical fault in the engine
electrical equipment/appliances
electrical power/energy
a car with electrically operated windows
electrically charged particles
an electric motor
an electric light/guitar, etc.
an electric current/charge
an electric generator
an electric plug/socket/switch (= that carries electricity)
an electrical fault
an electric/electrical company
an electric/electrical current
an electric/electrical shock
The atmosphere was electric.
The electric will be off tomorrow.
He was sent to the electric chair.
They face death by the electric chair.
a waste of electricity
The electricity is off (= there is no electric power supply).
There's a problem with the electrics.
The railway line was electrified in the 1950s.
He had all the fences around his home electrified.
Her performance electrified the audience.
The dancers gave an electrifying performance.
electromagnetism
The boy was electrocuted when he wandered onto a railway track.
He was electrocuted in Virginia in 2006 (= punished by being killed in the electric chair).
Six people were drowned; five died from electrocution.
He was sentenced to death by electrocution.
an electromagnetic wave/field
an electronic calculator
electronic music
This dictionary is available in electronic form.
an electronic engineer
to process data electronically (= using a computer)
the electronics industry
a fault in the electronics
She was tall and elegant.
an elegant dress
an elegant room/restaurant
an elegant solution to the problem
She dresses with casual elegance.
His writing combines elegance and wit.
elegantly dressed
elegantly furnished
an elementary English course
a book for elementary students
at an elementary level
the elementary laws of economics
an elementary mistake
elementary questions
Cost was a key element in our decision.
The story has all the elements of a soap opera.
Customer relations is an important element of the job.
We need to preserve the element of surprise.
There appears to be an element of truth in his story.
moderate/radical elements within the party
unruly elements in the school
Are we going to brave the elements and go for a walk?
to be exposed to the elements
He taught me the elements of map-reading.
Water is a fish's natural element.
The kettle needs a new element.
She's really in her element at parties.
the elemental fury of the storm
an elemental truth
Credit cards eliminate the need to carry a lot of cash.
The police have eliminated two suspects from their investigation.
This diet claims to eliminate toxins from the body.
All the English teams were eliminated in the early stages of the competition.
Most of the regime's left-wing opponents were eliminated.
the elimination of disease/poverty/crime
There were three eliminations in the first round of the competition.
the elimination of toxins from the body
herds of elephants/elephant herds
a baby elephant
The elephant in the room was the money that had to be paid in bribes.
He elevated many of his friends to powerful positions within the government.
It was an attempt to elevate football to a subject worthy of serious study.
It is important that the injured leg should be elevated.
Smoking often elevates blood pressure.
The song never failed to elevate his spirits.
an elevated status
elevated language/sentiments/thoughts
The house is in an elevated position, overlooking the town.
an elevated highway/railway/road (= one that runs on a bridge above the ground or street)
elevated blood pressure
Reading this essay was an elevating experience.
his elevation to the presidency
The city is at an elevation of 2 000 metres.
the front/rear/side elevation of a house
elevation of blood sugar levels
It's on the fifth floor, so we'd better take the elevator.
She was chosen for the first eleven.
an elfin face
I could elicit no response from him.
Her tears elicited great sympathy from her audience.
The 't' in 'often' may be elided.
Only those over 70 are eligible for the special payment.
When are you eligible to vote in your country?
a member of the ruling/intellectual elite
Public opinion is influenced by the small elite who control the media.
In these countries, only the elite can afford an education for their children.
an elite group of senior officials
an elite military academy
Many people believe that private education encourages elitism.
an elitist model of society
She accused him of being elitist.
the elixir of life/youth
Shakespeare was an Elizabethan.
an elliptical remark (= one that suggests more than is actually said)
to speak/write elliptically
Eric, as elusive as ever, was nowhere to be found.
the elusive concept of 'literature'
A solution to the problem of toxic waste is proving elusive.
a line of stately elms
The avenue was planted with elm.
the elongation of vowel sounds
Modigliani's women have strangely elongated faces.
an eloquent speech/speaker
His eyes were eloquent.
a speech of passionate eloquence
the eloquence of his smile
She spoke eloquently on the subject.
His face expressed his grief more eloquently than any words.
What else did he say?
I don't want anything else, thanks.
I'm taking a few clothes and some books, not much else.
Ask somebody else to help you.
Haven't you got anything else to wear?
Why didn't you come? Everybody else was there.
Yes I did give it to her. What else could I do?
Hurry up or else you'll be late.
They can't be coming or else they'd have called.
He either forgot or else decided not to come.
Just shut up, or else!
The answer to the problem must be sought elsewhere.
Our favourite restaurant was closed, so we had to go elsewhere.
Elsewhere, the weather today has been fairly sunny.
Prices are higher here than elsewhere.
He elucidated a point of grammar.
Let me elucidate.
I will try to elucidate what I think the problems are.
Their objectives and methods require further elucidation.
The two men managed to elude the police for six weeks.
He was extremely tired but sleep eluded him.
They're a popular band but chart success has eluded them so far.
Finally he remembered the tiny detail that had eluded him the night before.
She was very thin, almost to the point of emaciation.
to send a message by email
Patrick emailed me yesterday.
I'll email the documents to her.
I'll email her the documents.
He emanates power and confidence.
The sound of loud music emanated from the building.
The proposal originally emanated from the UN.
Slaves were not emancipated until 1863 in the United States.
Are women now fully emancipated (= with the same rights and opportunities as men)?
an emancipated young woman (= one with modern ideas about women's place in society)
the emancipation of slaves
Her questions about my private life embarrassed me.
I didn't want to embarrass him by kissing him in front of his friends.
It embarrassed her to meet strange men in the corridor at night.
The speech was deliberately designed to embarrass the prime minister.
I've never felt so embarrassed in my life!
Her remark was followed by an embarrassed silence.
She's embarrassed about her height.
He felt embarrassed at being the centre of attention.
Some women are too embarrassed to consult their doctor about the problem.
an embarrassing mistake/question/situation
It can be embarrassing for children to tell complete strangers about such incidents.
It was so embarrassing having to sing in public.
The report is likely to prove highly embarrassing to the government.
The play was embarrassingly bad.
I nearly died of embarrassment when he said that.
I'm glad you offered—it saved me the embarrassment of having to ask.
Much to her embarrassment she realized that everybody had been listening to her singing.
Her resignation will be a severe embarrassment to the party.
an arms embargo
an embargo on arms sales to certain countries
a trade embargo against certain countries
to impose/enforce/lift an embargo
There have been calls to embargo all arms shipments to the region.
We stood on the pier and watched as they embarked.
They embarked the troops by night.
Embarkation will be at 14:20 hours.
She is about to embark on a diplomatic career.
embassy officials
to inform the embassy of the situation
a demonstration outside the Russian Embassy
the embattled party leader
an operation to remove glass that was embedded in his leg
The bullet embedded itself in the wall.
(figurative) These attitudes are deeply embedded in our society (= felt very strongly and difficult to change).
embedded reporters in the war zone
Good fresh food needs very little embellishment.
a 16th century church with 18th century embellishments
He was found guilty of embezzling $150 000 of public funds.
She was found guilty of embezzlement.
a sick and embittered old man
an embittered laugh
baseball caps emblazoned with the team's logo
The team's logo was emblazoned on the baseball caps.
America's national emblem, the bald eagle
the club emblem
The dove is an emblem of peace.
The violence is emblematic of what is happening in our inner cities.
a politician who embodied the hopes of black youth
the principles embodied in the Declaration of Human Rights
This model embodies many new features.
He is the embodiment of the young successful businessman.
Emboldened by the wine, he went over to introduce himself to her.
With such a majority, the administration was emboldened to introduce radical new policies.
stationery embossed with the hotel's name
The hotel's name was embossed on the stationery.
embossed stationery
They embraced and promised to keep in touch.
She embraced her son warmly.
to embrace democracy/feminism/Islam
The talks embraced a wide range of issues.
He held her in a warm embrace.
There were tears and embraces as they said goodbye.
the country's eager embrace of modern technology
She embroidered flowers on the cushion covers.
She embroidered the cushion cover with flowers.
an embroidered blouse
She sat in the window, embroidering.
a beautiful piece of embroidery
Indian embroideries
He became embroiled in a dispute with his neighbours.
I was reluctant to embroil myself in his problems.
human embryos
(figurative) the embryo of an idea
an embryo politician (= one who is not yet very experienced)
The idea already existed in embryo in his earlier novels.
The plan, as yet, only exists in embryonic form.
embryonic cells
an emerald ring
The swimmer emerged from the lake.
She finally emerged from her room at noon.
We emerged into bright sunlight.
No new evidence emerged during the investigation.
It emerged that the company was going to be sold.
After the elections opposition groups began to emerge.
the emerging markets of South Asia
He emerged as a key figure in the campaign.
She emerged from the scandal with her reputation intact.
the island's emergence from the sea 3 000 years ago
the emergence of new technologies
The government has declared a state of emergency following the earthquake.
This door should only be used in an emergency.
the emergency exit (= to be used in an emergency)
The government had to take emergency action.
The pilot made an emergency landing in a field.
I always have some extra cash with me for emergencies.
The government has been granted emergency powers (= to deal with an emergency).
emergent nations/states
the Emeritus Professor of Biology
Professor Emerita Mary Judd
emigrant workers
emigrants to Canada
the mass emigration of Jews from Eastern Europe
a man of political eminence
Their Eminences will see you now.
an eminent architect
a man of eminent good sense
She seems eminently suitable for the job.
the Emir of Kuwait
the United Arab Emirates
the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere
emission controls
The government has pledged to clean up industrial emissions.
The metal container began to emit a clicking sound.
Sulphur gases were emitted by the volcano.
She answered almost immediately.
The point of my question may not be immediately apparent.
Turn right immediately after the church.
the years immediately before the war
Counselling is being given to those most immediately affected by the tragedy.
Immediately she'd gone, I remembered her name.
There is still an immense amount of work to be done.
The benefits are immense.
a project of immense importance
personal enmities and political conflicts
Her action earned her the enmity of two or three colleagues.
the traditional problem of the enmity between Protestants and Catholics
an emollient reply
an emollient cream
He lost control of his emotions.
They expressed mixed emotions at the news.
Emotions are running high (= people are feeling very excited, angry, etc.).
The decision was based on emotion rather than rational thought.
She showed no emotion at the verdict.
Mary was overcome with emotion.
emotional problems/needs
emotional stress
a child's emotional and intellectual development
Mothers are often the ones who provide emotional support for the family.
emotional language
abortion and other emotional issues
an emotional outburst/response/reaction
They made an emotional appeal for help.
He tends to get emotional on these occasions.
emotionally disturbed children
I try not to become emotionally involved.
They have suffered physically and emotionally.
an emotionally charged atmosphere
an emotionless voice
emotive language/words
Capital punishment is a highly emotive issue.
The emphasis is very much on learning the spoken language.
to put/lay/place emphasis on sth
We provide all types of information, with an emphasis on legal advice.
There has been a shift of emphasis from manufacturing to service industries.
The course has a vocational emphasis.
The examples we will look at have quite different emphases.
'I can assure you,' she added with emphasis, 'the figures are correct.'
His speech emphasized the importance of attracting industry to the town.
She emphasized that their plan would mean sacrifices and hard work.
He emphasized how little was known about the disease.
It should be emphasized that this is only one possible explanation.
'This must be our top priority,' he emphasized.
She swept her hair back from her face to emphasize her high cheekbones.
You stress the first syllable in 'happiness'. *
'Let nothing … nothing,' he emphasized the word, 'tempt you.'
the writer's imaginative empathy with his subject
empathy for other people's situations
The empathy between the two women was obvious.
Work on the building was impeded by severe weather.
empirical evidence/knowledge/research
an empirical study
Such claims need to be tested empirically.
the Roman emperors
the Emperor Napoleon
an emphatic denial/rejection
He was emphatic that he could not work with her.
'Certainly not,' he replied emphatically.
She is emphatically opposed to the proposals.
He has always emphatically denied the allegations.
The proposal was emphatically defeated.
the Roman empire
a business empire
an empiricist theory
the English empiricist, John Locke
How many people does the company employ?
For the past three years he has been employed as a firefighter.
A number of people have been employed to deal with the backlog of work.
He criticized the repressive methods employed by the country's government.
The police had to employ force to enter the building.
The firm has over 500 employees.
government employees
employee rights/relations
They're very good employers (= they treat the people that work for them well).
one of the largest employers in the area
to be in paid employment
full-time/part-time employment
conditions/terms of employment
Graduates are finding it more and more difficult to find employment.
pensions from previous employments
The government is aiming at full employment.
Changes in farming methods have badly affected employment in the area.
The law prevented the employment of children under ten in the cotton mills.
the employment of artillery in the capture of the town
She took her case to an employment tribunal.
an arts and crafts emporium
The car was impounded by the police after the accident.
The courts were empowered to impose the death sentence for certain crimes.
The movement actively empowered women and gave them confidence in themselves.
the empowerment of the individual
the Empress of Egypt
an empty box/glass
empty hands (= not holding anything)
an empty plate (= with no food on it)
The theatre was half empty.
an empty house/room/bus
Is this an empty chair (= a chair that nobody else is using)?
The house had been standing empty (= without people living in it) for some time.
It's not good to drink alcohol on an empty stomach (= without having eaten something).
(formal) The room was empty of furniture.
empty words
an empty promise
an empty gesture aimed at pleasing the crowds
Three months after his death, she still felt empty.
My life seems empty without you.
words that were empty of meaning
She stood staring emptily into space.
He emptied the ashtrays, washed the glasses and went to bed.
He emptied his glass and asked for a refill.
I emptied out my pockets but could not find my keys.
She emptied the water out of the vase.
The room had been emptied of all furniture.
(figurative) She emptied her mind of all thoughts of home.
The streets soon emptied when the rain started.
The tank empties out in five minutes.
She emptied the contents of her bag onto the table.
Many factories emptied their waste into the river.
Police had instructions to empty the building because of a bomb threat.
The Rhine empties into the North Sea.
Fans emptied out onto the streets after the concert.
There was an aching emptiness in her heart.
The silence and emptiness of the house did not scare her.
He stared out at the vast emptiness that was the sea.
The robbers fled empty-handed.
She visited every Sunday and never arrived empty-handed.
She hopes to emulate her sister's sporting achievements.
There are reports of teachers resigning en bloc.
He mentioned en passant that he was going away.
We stopped for a picnic en route.
The bus broke down en route from Boston to New York.
(BrE) a plane en route for Heathrow
Each bedroom in the hotel has a bathroom en suite/an en suite bathroom.
an en suite bedroom (= a bedroom with an en suite bathroom)
en suite facilities
The en-suite has a power shower.
Both bedrooms have tiled en-suites.
encase
endanger
empower
enlarge
embolden
The en-suite has a power shower.
Both bedrooms have tiled en-suites.
The software enables you to create your own DVDs.
a new programme to enable older people to study at college
Insulin enables the body to use and store sugar.
a new train line to enable easier access to the stadium
legislation enacted by parliament
scenes from history enacted by local residents
They seemed unaware of the drama being enacted a few feet away from them.
This involves identifying problems and enacting solutions.
a chipped enamel bowl
a handle inlaid with enamel
an exhibition of enamels and jewellery
He was less than enamoured of the music.
(humorous) I'm not exactly enamoured with the idea of spending a whole day with them.
a military encampment
The poem encapsulates many of the central themes of her writing.
The reactor is encased in concrete and steel.
an enchanted forest/kingdom
He was enchanted to see her again after so long.
an enchanting view
It was a place of deep mystery and enchantment.
They had been turned to stone by an enchantment.
Jack's arms encircled her waist.
The island is encircled by a coral reef.
The yard had been enclosed with iron railings.
The land was enclosed in the seventeenth century (= in Britain, when public land was made private property).
(figurative) All translated words should be enclosed in brackets.
Low hedges enclosed the flower beds.
(figurative) She felt his arms enclose her.
Please return the completed form, enclosing a recent photograph.
Do not use this substance in an enclosed space.
Please complete the enclosed application form.
Please find enclosed a cheque for £100.
a wildlife enclosure
the enclosure of common land in the seventeenth century
The job encompasses a wide range of responsibilities.
The group encompasses all ages.
The fog soon encompassed the whole valley.
She played a Chopin waltz as an encore.
The group got three encores.
The new car design incorporates all the latest safety features.
We have incorporated all the latest safety features into the design.
Many of your suggestions have been incorporated in the plan.
The company was incorporated in 2008.
the incorporation of foreign words into the language
the articles of incorporation of the company
We encountered a number of difficulties in the first week.
I had never encountered such resistance before.
She was the most remarkable woman he had ever encountered.
Three of them were killed in the subsequent encounter with the police.
The story describes the extraordinary encounter between a man and a dolphin.
a chance encounter
I've had a number of close encounters (= situations that could have been dangerous) with bad drivers.
It was his first sexual encounter (= first experience of sex).
She has beaten her opponent in all of their previous encounters.
My parents have always encouraged me in my choice of career.
We were greatly encouraged by the positive response of the public.
Banks actively encouraged people to borrow money.
They claim that some computer games encourage violent behaviour in young children.
Music and lighting are used to encourage shoppers to buy more.
Technology encourages multitasking.
This month's unemployment figures are not very encouraging.
You could try being a little more encouraging!
to smile encouragingly
The attendance was encouragingly high.
a few words of encouragement
He needs all the support and encouragement he can get.
With a little encouragement from his parents he should do well.
She was given every encouragement to try something new.
Her words were a great encouragement to them.
The population has increased from 1.2 million to 1.8 million.
increasing levels of carbon dioxide in the earth's atmosphere
The price of oil increased.
Oil increased in price.
The rate of inflation increased by 2%.
Disability increases with age (= the older sb is, the more likely they are to be disabled).
We need to increase productivity.
They've increased the price by 50%.
increased demand
an increase in spending
an increase of 2p in the pound on income tax
an increase of nearly 20%
a significant/substantial increase in sales
price/tax/wage increases
Homelessness is on the increase (= increasing).
Student numbers in English language schools in this country increased from 66 000 in 2008 to just over 84 000 in 2009.
The number of students increased by almost 30% compared with the previous year.
Student numbers shot up / increased dramatically in 2009.
The proportion of Spanish students rose sharply from 5% in 2008 to 14% in 2009.
There was a significant rise in student numbers in 2009.
The 2009 figure was 84 000, an increase of 28% on the previous year. *
The 2009 figure was 84 000, 28 per cent up on the previous year. *
As the chart shows, this can partly be explained by a dramatic increase in students from Spain.
I won't encroach on your time any longer.
He never allows work to encroach upon his family life.
The growing town soon encroached on the surrounding countryside.
the encroaching tide (= that is coming in)
the regime's many encroachments on human rights
a crown encrusted with diamonds
encrusted blood
The police operation was encumbered by crowds of reporters.
The frogmen were encumbered by their diving equipment.
I felt I was being an encumbrance to them.
an online encyclopedia
encyclopedic information
an encyclopedic dictionary
She has an encyclopedic knowledge of natural history.
We didn't leave until the very end.
the end of the book
We had to hear about the whole journey from beginning to end.
It's the end of an era.
Turn right at the end of the road.
I joined the end of the queue.
Go to the end of the line!
You've got something on the end of your nose.
Tie the ends of the string together.
That's his wife sitting at the far end of the table.
These two products are from opposite ends of the price range.
We've travelled from one end of Mexico to the other.
They live in the end house.
the end of all his dreams
The meeting came to an end (= finished).
The war was finally at an end.
The coup brought his corrupt regime to an end.
There's no end in sight to the present crisis.
They have called for an end to violence.
That was by no means the end of the matter.
They are prepared to use violence in pursuit of their ends.
She is exploiting the current situation for her own ends.
With this end in view (= in order to achieve this) they employed 50 new staff.
We are willing to make any concessions necessary to this end (= in order to achieve this).
Set yourself targets that you can reasonably hope to achieve.
attainment targets in schools
What is the main objective of this project?
He continued to pursue his goal of becoming an actor.
The object is to educate people about road safety.
He joined the society for political ends.
That's only OK if you believe that the end justifies the means (= bad methods of doing sth are acceptable if the final result is good).
We need somebody to handle the marketing end of the business.
Are there any problems at your end?
I have kept my end of the bargain.
I answered the phone but there was no one at the other end.
Jean is going to meet me at the other end.
The teams changed ends at half-time.
a cigarette end
She came to an untimely end (= died young).
I was with him at the end (= when he died).
(literary) He met his end (= died) at the Battle of Waterloo.
They arranged the tables end to end.
I'd go to the ends of the earth to see her again.
He tried various jobs and in the end became an accountant.
You can try your best to impress the interviewers but in the end it's often just a question of luck.
Many families struggle to make ends meet.
It upset me no end to hear they'd split up.
We had no end of trouble getting them to agree.
Failing one exam is not the end of the world.
It'll fit if you stand it on end.
He would disappear for weeks on end.
a chilling tale that will make your hair stand on end
If we don't get her a dog we'll never hear the end of it.
He started work at the sharp end of the business, as a salesman.
The road ends here.
How does the story end?
The speaker ended by suggesting some topics for discussion.
Her note ended with the words: 'See you soon.'
They decided to end their relationship.
They ended the play with a song.
'And that was that,' she ended.
It's been lovely/so nice/good talking to you.
I'm so glad we got to talk.
I'm sorry, I have to rush off.
It was nice to meet you. I'm sorry I have to go now.
Will you excuse me? There's someone I've got to speak to.
The word I'm thinking of ends in '-ous'.
Their long struggle ended in failure.
The debate ended in uproar.
I ended up doing all the work myself.
If you go on like this you'll end up in prison.
If he carries on driving like that, he'll end up dead.
The health of our children is being endangered by exhaust fumes.
That one mistake seriously endangered the future of the company.
14% of primate species are highly endangered.
The sea turtle is an endangered species.
Their policies on taxation didn't endear them to voters.
She was a talented teacher who endeared herself to all who worked with her.
an endearing habit
They were whispering endearments to each other.
'Darling' is a term of endearment.
Please make every endeavour to arrive on time.
advances in the field of scientific endeavour
The manager is expected to use his or her best endeavours to promote the artist's career.
I will endeavour to do my best for my country.
Malaria is endemic in many hot countries.
Corruption is endemic in the system.
an attitude endemic among senior members of the profession
species endemic to (= only found in) Madagascar
the endemic problem of racism
His stories usually have a happy ending.
the anniversary of the ending of the Pacific War
It was the perfect ending to the perfect day.
verb endings
a masculine/feminine ending
endless patience
endless opportunities for making money
The possibilities are endless.
an endless list of things to do
We don't have an endless supply of money, you know.
an endless round of parties and visits
The journey seemed endless.
I've had enough of their endless arguing.
an endless loop of tape
She talks endlessly about her problems.
an endlessly repeated pattern
the endocrine system
I wholeheartedly endorse his remarks.
Members of all parties endorsed a ban on land mines.
You risk having your licence endorsed.
The election victory is a clear endorsement of their policies.
a letter of endorsement
She had endowed Marcus with the qualities she wanted him to possess.
to endow sb with a responsibility
He showed remarkable endurance throughout his illness.
They were humiliated beyond endurance.
This event tests both physical and mental endurance.
powers of endurance
The party turned out to be more of an endurance test than a pleasure.
They had to endure a long wait before the case came to trial.
She could not endure the thought of parting.
The pain was almost too great to endure.
(formal) a love that endures all things and never fails
He can't endure being defeated.
He can't endure to be defeated.
a success that will endure
I felt that life was no longer endurable.
enduring memories
What is the reason for the game's enduring appeal?
an enduringly popular style
We turned the table endways to get it through the doors.
The first picture was taken from the side of the building, and the second one endways on.
The stones are laid down endways to make a path.
Do you need any help?
It's here if you need it.
Don't go—I might need you.
They badly needed a change.
Food aid is urgently needed.
What do you need your own computer for? You can use ours.
I don't need your comments, thank you.
I need to get some sleep.
He needs to win this game to stay in the match.
You don't need to leave yet, do you?
This shirt needs to be washed.
This shirt needs washing.
All you need to do is complete this form.
I didn't need to go to the bank after all—Mary lent me the money.
Do you need any help?
I needed to get some sleep.
Will we need to show our passports?
Need I pay the whole amount now?
You needn't bother asking Rick—I know he's too busy.
I need hardly tell you (= you must already know) that the work is dangerous.
If she wants anything, she need only ask.
All you need bring are sheets.
You needn't have worried (= it was not necessary for you to worry, but you did) —it all turned out fine.
Need you have paid so much?
to satisfy/meet/identify a need
There is an urgent need for qualified teachers.
We will contact you again if the need arises.
The house is in need of a thorough clean.
There is no need for you to get up early tomorrow.
I had no need to open the letter—I knew what it would say.
There's no need to cry (= stop crying).
to fulfil an emotional need
She felt the need to talk to someone.
I'm in need of some fresh air.
She had no more need of me.
financial needs
a programme to suit your individual needs
to meet children's special educational needs
The charity aims to provide assistance to people in need.
He helped me in my hour of need.
There's always food in the freezer if need be.
He has a lot of enemies in the company.
After just one day, she had already made an enemy of her manager.
It is rare to find a prominent politician with few political enemies.
The state has a duty to protect its citizens against external enemies.
Birds are the natural enemies of many insect pests (= they kill them).
The enemy was/were forced to retreat.
enemy forces/aircraft/territory
behind enemy lines (= the area controlled by the enemy)
Poverty and ignorance are the enemies of progress.
He knew I was energetic and dynamic and would get things done.
an energetic supporter
The heart responds well to energetic exercise.
For the more energetic (= people who prefer physical activities), we offer windsurfing and diving.
I think I'd prefer something a little less energetic.
It's a waste of time and energy.
She's always full of energy.
nervous energy (= energy produced by feeling nervous)
She put all her energies into her work.
creative/destructive energies
solar/nuclear energy
It is important to conserve energy.
an energy crisis (= for example when fuel is not freely available)
kinetic/potential, etc. energy
a refreshing and energizing fruit drink
an enervating disease/climate
She lay quietly, enfolded in his arms.
Darkness spread and enfolded him.
It's the job of the police to enforce the law.
The legislation will be difficult to enforce.
United Nations troops enforced a ceasefire in the area.
You can't enforce cooperation between the players.
A gambling debt is not legally enforceable.
strict enforcement of regulations
law enforcement officers
a period of enforced absence
It is a movie that engages both the mind and the eye.
He is currently engaged as a consultant.
She has the ability to engage with young minds.
to engage the enemy
The cogwheels are not engaging.
One cogwheel engages with the next.
Engage the clutch before selecting a gear.
Even in prison, he continued to engage in criminal activities.
She tried desperately to engage him in conversation.
They are engaged in talks with the Irish government.
They were engaged in conversation.
He is now engaged on his second novel.
I can't come to dinner on Tuesday—I'm otherwise engaged (= I have already arranged to do something else).
When did you get engaged?
an engaged couple
She's engaged to Peter.
They are engaged to be married (= to each other).
I couldn't get through—the line's engaged.
I phoned earlier but you were engaged (= using your phone).
the engaged tone/signal
Their engagement was announced in the local paper.
She has broken off her engagement to Charles.
an engagement party
a long/short engagement
an engagement book/diary
He has a number of social engagements next week.
It was her first official engagement.
I had to refuse because of a prior engagement.
The general tried to avoid an engagement with the enemy.
Her views are based on years of engagement with the problems of the inner city.
The terms of engagement are to be agreed in writing.
an engaging smile
The issue engendered controversy.
They're sending an engineer to fix the phone.
a flight engineer
the chief engineer on a cruise liner
She engineered a further meeting with him.
The car is beautifully engineered and a pleasure to drive.
genetically engineered crops
The bridge is a triumph of modern engineering.
a degree in engineering
a diesel/petrol engine
My car had to have a new engine.
engine trouble
I switched/turned the engine off.
a twin-engined speedboat
She speaks good English.
I need to improve my English.
world Englishes
a degree in English
English is my best subject.
the English countryside
an English man/woman
typically English attitudes
an English dictionary
The silver cup was engraved with his name.
His name was engraved on the silver cup.
an engrossing problem
She was engrossed in conversation.
He was engulfed by a crowd of reporters.
The vehicle was engulfed in flames.
Fear engulfed her.
This is an opportunity to enhance the reputation of the company.
the skilled use of make-up to enhance your best features
enhanced efficiency
equipment for the enhancement of sound quality
software enhancements
flavour enhancers
an enigmatic smile
'I might,' he said enigmatically.
The unit has become part of a larger department and no longer exists as a separate entity.
These countries can no longer be viewed as a single entity.
a pleasant working/learning environment
An unhappy home environment can affect a child's behaviour.
They have created an environment in which productivity should flourish.
the political environment
tests carried out in a controlled environment
the Department of the Environment
measures to protect the environment
pollution of the environment
damage to the environment
a desktop development environment
We thoroughly enjoyed our time in New York.
Thanks for a great evening. I really enjoyed it.
I enjoy playing tennis and squash.
They all enjoyed themselves at the party.
I enjoyed myself at the party.
Thanks. I really enjoyed it.
I enjoy playing basketball.
I enjoy reading very much.
I hope you enjoy your trip.
People in this country enjoy a high standard of living.
He's always enjoyed good health.
Here's that book I promised you. Enjoy!
an enjoyable weekend/experience
highly/really/thoroughly/very enjoyable
The evening passed enjoyably.
He spoiled my enjoyment of the game by talking all through it.
The rules are there to ensure everyone's safety and enjoyment.
Children seem to have lost their enjoyment in reading.
I get a lot of enjoyment from my grandchildren.
We had a lot of fun at Sarah's party.
Sailing is good/great fun.
Reading for pleasure and reading for study are not the same.
We had a good time in Spain.
I get a lot of enjoyment from music.
He beamed with pleasure at seeing her.
We had a really great time together.
Children like to share interests and enjoyments with their parents.
the enjoyment of equal rights
There are plans to enlarge the recreation area.
Reading will enlarge your vocabulary.
We're going to have this picture enlarged.
an enlarged heart
the enlargement of the company's overseas business activities
There was widespread support for EU enlargement (= the fact of more countries joining).
If you like the picture I can send you an enlargement of it.
She didn't enlighten him about her background.
It was a very enlightening interview.
enlightened opinions/attitudes/ideas
The newspapers provided little enlightenment about the cause of the accident.
spiritual enlightenment
They hoped to enlist the help of the public in solving the crime.
We were enlisted as helpers.
We were enlisted to help.
They both enlisted in 1915.
to enlist as a soldier
He was enlisted into the US Navy.
the enlistment of expert help
his enlistment in the Royal Air Force
enlisted men and women
enlisted personnel
In a strange way she seemed ennobled by her grief.
the enormity of the task
People are still coming to terms with the enormity of the disaster.
The full enormity of the crime has not yet been revealed.
the enormities of the Hitler regime
an enormous house/dog
an enormous amount of time
enormous interest
The problems facing the President are enormous.
enormously rich/powerful/grateful
The price of wine varies enormously depending on where it comes from.
She was looking forward to the meeting enormously.
Have you made enough copies?
Is there enough room for me?
I didn't have enough clothes to last a week.
Don't ask me to do it. I've got enough problems as it is.
(old-fashioned) There was food enough for all.
There'll be time enough to relax when you've finished your work.
Six bottles should be enough.
Have you had enough (= to eat)?
If enough of you are interested, we'll organize a trip to the theatre.
There was nowhere near enough for everybody.
We've nearly run out of paper. Do you think there's enough for today?
'He's a politician, remember.' 'Enough said.'
I've had enough of driving the kids around.
I hadn't trained enough for the game.
This house isn't big enough for us.
She's old enough to decide for herself.
We didn't leave early enough.
Tell them it's just not good enough.
He seemed pleasant enough to me.
I hope my job's safe. Life is hard enough as it is.
'We'll meet at 8.' 'Fair enough.'
If you don't want to come, fair enough, but let Bill know.
The new legislation is welcome but does not go far enough.
Do these measures go far enough?
(disapproving) Stop it now. The joke has gone far enough (= it has continued too long).
We've been here twenty years, near enough.
You heard me right enough (= so don't pretend that you did not).
I said he'd forget, and sure enough he did.
£50 should be enough to be going on with.
I called the station to enquire about train times.
She enquired as to your whereabouts.
Might I enquire why you have not mentioned this until now?
He enquired her name.
'What is your name?' he enquired.
I called to enquire about train times.
A committee will inquire into the allegations.
A committee was appointed to enquire into the allegations.
'Will you be staying for lunch?' she enquired of Charles.
a murder enquiry
a public enquiry into the environmental effects of the proposed new road
to hold/order an enquiry into the affair
a telephone enquiry
We received over 300 enquiries about the job.
enquiries from prospective students
I'll have to make a few enquiries (= try to find out about it) and get back to you.
(BrE) Two men have been helping police with their enquiries (= are being questioned about a crime, but have not been charged with it).
scientific enquiry
The police are following several lines of enquiry.
a committee of enquiry
Ask at enquiries to see if your bag has been handed in.
a murder inquiry
a child with an enquiring mind
an enquiring look
The study of science has enriched all our lives.
Most breakfast cereals are enriched with vitamins.
a nation enriched by oil revenues
He used his position to enrich himself.
You need to enrol before the end of August.
(BrE) to enrol on a course
(NAmE) to enroll in a course
The centre will soon be ready to enrol candidates for the new programme.
Enrolment is the first week of September.
School enrolments are currently falling.
a brass/wind/string, etc. ensemble
The ensemble is/are based in Lyons.
These rights are enshrined in the country's constitution.
the White Ensign (= the flag of the British Navy)
Ensign Marshall
young homeless people who become ensnared in a life of crime
An argument ensued.
He had become separated from his parents in the ensuing panic.
The book ensured his success.
Victory ensured them a place in the final.
Please ensure (that) all lights are switched off.
The job entails a lot of hard work.
The girls learn exactly what is entailed in caring for a newborn baby.
It will entail driving a long distance every day.
The bird had become entangled in the wire netting.
He became entangled in a series of conflicts with the management.
She didn't want to get entangled (= emotionally involved) with him.
Many dolphins die each year from entanglement in fishing nets.
the Franco-Russian entente
Knock before you enter.
Someone entered the room behind me.
Where did the bullet enter the body?
(figurative) A note of defiance entered her voice.
(figurative) It never entered my head (= I never thought) that she would tell him about me.
to enter a school/college/university
to enter politics
to enter Parliament (= become an MP)
to enter the Church (= become a priest)
to enter a relationship/conflict/war
Several new firms have now entered the market.
The investigation has entered a new phase.
The strike is entering its fourth week.
1 000 children entered the competition.
Irish trainers have entered several horses in the race.
How many students have been entered for the exam?
Only four British players have entered for the championship.
Enter your name and occupation in the boxes (= on a form).
to enter data into a computer
to enter figures on a spreadsheet
to enter a plea of not guilty (= at the beginning of a court case)
to enter an offer
Have you entered your name for the quiz yet?
Let's not enter into details at this stage.
They entered into the spirit of the occasion (= began to enjoy and feel part of it).
This possibility never entered into our calculations.
Your personal feelings shouldn't enter into this at all.
to enter into an agreement
to enter into negotiations
to enter on a new career
the entrance to the museum/the museum entrance
A lighthouse marks the entrance to the harbour.
the front/back/side entrance of the house
an entrance hall/lobby
I'll meet you at the main entrance.
His sudden entrance took everyone by surprise.
A fanfare signalled the entrance of the king.
She made her entrance after all the other guests had arrived.
The hero makes his entrance (= walks onto the stage) in Scene 2.
They were refused entrance to the exhibition.
The police were unable to gain entrance to the house.
an entrance fee (= money paid to go into a museum, etc.)
The company made a dramatic entrance into the export market.
a university entrance exam
entrance requirements
Entrance to the golf club is by sponsorship only.
He listened to her, entranced.
entrancing music
entrepreneurial skills
an enterprise with a turnover of $26 billion
state-owned/public enterprises
small and medium-sized enterprises
his latest business enterprise
a joint enterprise
grants to encourage enterprise in the region
an enterprise culture (= in which people are encouraged to develop small businesses)
a job in which enterprise is rewarded
The job involves a lot of entertaining.
Barbecues are a favourite way of entertaining friends.
He entertained us for hours with his stories and jokes.
The aim of the series is both to entertain and inform.
He had entertained hopes of a reconciliation.
to entertain a doubt/suspicion
radio, television and other forms of entertainment
There will be live entertainment at the party.
It was typical family entertainment.
The entertainment was provided by a folk band.
Local entertainments are listed in the newspaper.
The show was good entertainment value.
There are three bars, with live entertainment seven nights a week.
It wasn't serious—it was all done in fun.
We didn't mean to hurt him. It was just a bit of fun.
The lottery provides harmless fun for millions.
His only form of recreation is playing football.
I go hill-walking for relaxation.
I play the flute in a wind band for recreation.
I listen to music for relaxation.
the happy sounds of children at play
Are you in Paris for business or pleasure?
What do you do for amusement round here?
a budget for the entertainment of clients
an entertaining speech/evening
I found the talk both informative and entertaining.
She was always so funny and entertaining.
The child watched, enthralled by the bright moving images.
an enthralling performance
The article enthused about the benefits that the new system would bring.
'It's a wonderful idea', he enthused.
The organizers enthused that it was their most successful event yet.
Everyone present was enthused by the idea.
I can't say I share your enthusiasm for the idea.
He had a real enthusiasm for the work.
She never lost her enthusiasm for teaching.
The news was greeted with a lack of enthusiasm by those at the meeting.
'I don't mind,' she said, without much enthusiasm.
full of enthusiasm
a football enthusiast
an enthusiast of jazz
enthusiasts for a united Europe
an enthusiastic supporter
an enthusiastic welcome
You don't sound very enthusiastic about the idea.
She was even less enthusiastic about going to Spain.
The bargain prices are expected to entice customers away from other stores.
The animal refused to be enticed from its hole.
He was not enticed into parting with his cash.
Try and entice the child to eat by offering small portions of their favourite food.
The party is offering low taxation as its main enticement.
The offer was too enticing to refuse.
You will be entitled to your pension when you reach 65.
Everyone's entitled to their own opinion.
This ticket does not entitle you to travel first class.
He read a poem entitled 'Salt'.
The entire village was destroyed.
I wasted an entire day on it.
I have never in my entire life heard such nonsense!
The disease threatens to wipe out the entire population.
I entirely agree with you.
I'm not entirely happy about the proposal.
That's an entirely different matter.
The audience was almost entirely female.
The poem is too long to quote in its entirety.
This may affect your entitlement to compensation.
Your contributions will affect your pension entitlements.
a reform of entitlements
Medicaid, Medicare and other entitlement programs
new women entrants to the police force
university entrants
Please help me, I entreat you.
She entreated him not to go.
'Please don't go,' she entreated (him).
Sexism is deeply entrenched in our society.
entrenched attitudes/interests/opposition
She made her entry to the sound of thunderous applause.
The children were surprised by the sudden entry of their teacher.
How did the thieves gain entry into the building?
No Entry (= for example, on a sign)
Entry to the museum is free.
to be granted/refused entry into the country
countries seeking entry into the European Union
the entry of women into the workforce
There have been some impressive entries in the wildlife photography section (= impressive photographs).
The closing date for entries is 31 March.
The sender of the first correct entry drawn will win a weekend for two in Venice.
Entry is open to anyone over the age of 18.
an entry form
There's a record entry for this year's marathon.
an encyclopedia entry
There is no entry in his diary for that day.
You can leave your umbrella in the entry.
In the business world, entropy rules.
He entrusted the task to his nephew.
He entrusted his nephew with the task.
an entry-level computer
They strolled through the park, with arms entwined.
Her destiny was entwined with his.
She enunciated each word slowly and carefully.
He enunciated his vision of the future.
She was enveloped in a huge white towel.
Clouds enveloped the mountain tops.
writing paper and envelopes
an airmail/padded/prepaid envelope
He is a performer who consistently pushes the envelope of TV comedy.
He is in the enviable position of having two job offers to choose from.
an enviably mild climate
He couldn't conceal his envy of me.
She felt a pang of envy at the thought of his success.
They looked with envy at her latest purchase.
Her colleagues were green with envy (= they had very strong feelings of envy ).
He envied her—she seemed to have everything she could possibly want.
She has always envied my success.
I envied him his good looks.
I envy you having such a close family.
It's a difficult situation you're in. I don't envy you.
I don't envy her that job.
the environmental impact of pollution
environmental issues/problems
an environmental group/movement (= that aims to improve or protect the natural environment)
environmental damage
environmental influences
an environmental health officer
an environmentally sensitive area (= one that is easily damaged or that contains rare animals, plants, etc.)
environmentally damaging
Everyone is so envious of her.
They were envious of his success.
He saw the envious look in the other boy's eyes.
They look enviously at the success of their European counterparts.
environmentally friendly packaging
Berlin and its environs
people living in the immediate environs of a nuclear plant
What level of profit do you envisage?
I can't envisage her coping with this job.
It is envisaged that the talks will take place in the spring.
I envisage that the work will be completed next year.
It is difficult to envisage how people will react.
The house was just as she had imagined it.
We couldn't think where you'd gone.
Just think —this time tomorrow we'll be lying on a beach.
I can't see her changing her mind.
His colleagues see him as a future director.
I don't envisage working with him again.
They envision an equal society, free from poverty and disease.
I don't envision working with him again.
They envision an equal society, free of poverty and disease.
They didn't envision any problems with the new building.
It is unlikely that libel laws will be invoked.
She invoked several eminent scholars to back up her argument.
His name was invoked as a symbol of the revolution.
The opening paragraph invokes a vision of England in the early Middle Ages.
This command will invoke the HELP system.
Any investment involves an element of risk.
Many of the crimes involved drugs.
The test will involve answering questions about a photograph.
The job involves me travelling all over the country.
(formal) The job involves my travelling all over the country.
There was a serious incident involving a group of youths.
How many vehicles were involved in the crash?
We want to involve as many people as possible in the celebrations.
Parents should involve themselves in their child's education.
His confession involved a number of other politicians in the affair.
You have involved me in a great deal of extra work.
The next train to Baltimore is at ten.
The next six months will be the hardest.
the next chapter
Who's next?
the woman in the next room
I fainted and the next thing I knew I was in the hospital.
(informal) Round here, you leave school at sixteen and next thing you know, you're married with three kids.
When is your next appointment?
Turn left at the next traffic lights.
Who's next?
Where's the nearest supermarket?
Janet's sitting nearest to the window(= of all the people in the room).
Sarah's sitting next to the window(= right beside it).
Who's sitting nearest the door?
Next Thursday is 12 April.
Next time I'll bring a book.
I can enjoy a joke as well as the next man, but this is going too far.
What happened next?
Next, I heard the sound of voices.
Jo was the next oldest after Martin.
The next best thing to flying is gliding.
You're going bungee jumping? Whatever next?
One moment he wasn't there, the next he was.
the week after next
eons of geological history
a collection of postcards, tickets and other ephemera
one of the great Hindu epics
the creative genius of Greek epic
Their four-hour match on Centre Court was an epic.
an epic poem
an epic journey/struggle
a tragedy of epic proportions
The party was epic!
I went to an epic festival last summer.
epicene beauty
You can write 's/he' as an epicene pronoun when you are not referring to men or women in particular.
the outbreak of a flu epidemic
an epidemic of measles
an epidemic of crime in the inner cities
Car theft is now reaching epidemic proportions.
Some mothers choose to have an epidural when giving birth.
an epileptic fit
Is she an epileptic?
I'd like to try and forget the whole episode.
One of the funniest episodes in the book occurs in Chapter 6.
episcopal power
the Episcopal Church (= the Anglican Church in Scotland and the US)
My memories of childhood are hazy and episodic.
the Epistles of St Paul
an epistolary novel
These slums are an epitaph to the housing policy of the 1960s.
The film is long and dramatic but does not quite earn the epithet 'epic'.
Racial epithets were scrawled on the walls.
He is the epitome of a modern young man.
clothes that are the epitome of good taste
The fighting qualities of the team are epitomized by the captain.
These movies seem to epitomize the 1950s.
The death of the emperor marked the end of an epoch in the country's history.
geological epochs
Don Quixote, eponymous hero of the great novel by Cervantes
an equable temperament
There is an equal number of boys and girls in the class.
two pieces of wood equal in length/of equal length
One unit of alcohol is equal to half a pint of beer.
equal rights/pay
The company has an equal opportunities policy (= gives the same chances of employment to everyone).
the desire for a more equal society (= in which everyone has the same rights and chances)
I hope that he proves equal to the challenge.
Can our industry compete on equal terms with its overseas rivals?
She treats the people who work for her as her equals.
Our cars are the equal of those produced anywhere in the world.
2x plus y equals 7 (= 2x+y=7)
A metre equals 39.38 inches.
This achievement is unlikely ever to be equalled.
Her hatred of religion is equalled only by her loathing for politicians.
With his last jump he equalled the world record.
Cooperation equals success.
a policy to equalize the distribution of resources throughout the country
Rooney equalized early in the second half.
racial/social/sexual equality
equality of opportunity
the principle of equality before the law (= the law treats everyone the same)
Don't you believe in equality between men and women?
Rooney scored the equalizer.
Diet and exercise are equally important.
This job could be done equally well by a computer.
We try to treat every member of staff equally.
The money was divided equally among her four children.
They share the housework equally.
I'm trying to do what is best, but equally I've got to consider the cost.
She accepted the prospect of her operation with equanimity.
Some parents equate education with exam success.
I don't see how you can equate the two things.
A $5 000 raise equates to 25%.
The equation of wealth with happiness can be dangerous.
When children enter the equation, further tensions may arise within a marriage.
equatorial rainforests
an equatorial climate
equestrian events at the Olympic Games
equidistant
equilibrium
All points on a circle are equidistant from the centre.
250 grams or an equivalent amount in ounces
Eight kilometres is roughly equivalent to five miles.
There is no straightforward equivalence between economic progress and social well-being.
Send €20 or the equivalent in your own currency.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, the human equivalent of BSE
Breathing such polluted air is the equivalent of (= has the same effect as) smoking ten cigarettes a day.
The German 'Gymnasium' is the closest equivalent to the grammar school in England.
The point at which the solid and the liquid are in equilibrium is called the freezing point.
Any disturbance to the body's state of equilibrium can produce stress.
We have achieved an equilibrium in the economy.
He sat down to try and recover his equilibrium.
the spring/autumn equinox
to be fully/poorly equipped
She got a bank loan to rent and equip a small workshop.
He equipped himself with a street plan.
The centre is well equipped for canoeing and mountaineering.
The course is designed to equip students for a career in nursing.
a useful piece of equipment for the kitchen
office equipment
new equipment for the sports club
The equipment of the photographic studio was expensive.
She gave an equivocal answer, typical of a politician.
The experiments produced equivocal results.
'Will you do it?' 'Er, yes, I suppose so.'
the Victorian/modern/post-war era
When she left the firm, it was the end of an era (= things were different after that).
Diphtheria has been virtually eradicated in the United States.
We are determined to eradicate racism from our sport.
She tried to erase the memory of that evening.
All doubts were suddenly erased from his mind.
You cannot erase injustice from the world.
He had erased the wrong word.
All the phone numbers had been erased.
Parts of the recording have been erased.
the accidental erasure of important computer files
The electricity supply here is quite erratic.
She had learnt to live with his sudden changes of mood and erratic behaviour.
Mary is a gifted but erratic player (= she does not always play well).
He was obviously upset and was driving erratically.
Ere long (= soon) they returned.
Stand with your arms by your side and your head erect.
The church was erected in 1582.
Police had to erect barriers to keep crowds back.
to erect a tent
to erect trade barriers
erectile tissue
to get/have an erection
the erection of scaffolding around the building
The verb 'grow' is ergative because you can say 'She grew flowers in her garden' or 'Flowers grew in her garden'.
ergonomic design
The layout is hard to fault ergonomically.
'Shall we go?' 'Erm, yes, let's.'
The cliff face has been steadily eroded by the sea.
The rocks have eroded away over time.
Her confidence has been slowly eroded by repeated failures.
Mortgage payments have been eroded (= decreased in value) by inflation.
the erosion of the coastline by the sea
soil erosion
the erosion of her confidence
erotic art
an erotic fantasy
To err is human…
I thought it was better to err on the side of caution (= to be too careful rather than take a risk).
He often runs errands for his grandmother.
Her boss sent her on an errand into town.
erroneous conclusions/assumptions
No payments were made last week because of a computer error.
There are too many errors in your work.
I think you have made an error in calculating the total.
A simple error of judgement meant that there was not enough food to go around.
a grave error (= a very serious mistake)
a glaring error (= a mistake that is very obvious)
The delay was due to human error (= a mistake made by a person rather than by a machine).
The computer system was switched off in error (= by mistake).
There is no room for error in this job.
It's a common mistake among learners of English.
spelling mistakes
The article is full of inaccuracies.
The report is full of howlers.
Children learn to use computer programs by trial and error.
ersatz coffee
an erstwhile opponent
His erstwhile friends turned against him.
The volcano could erupt at any time.
Ash began to erupt from the crater.
An immense volume of rocks and molten lava was erupted.
Violence erupted outside the embassy gates.
The unrest erupted into revolution.
When Davis scored for the third time the crowd erupted.
My father just erupted into fury.
'How dare you?' she erupted.
A rash had erupted all over his chest.
a major volcanic eruption
an eruption of violent protest
skin rashes and eruptions
The fighting escalated into a full-scale war.
the escalating costs of health care
We do not want to escalate the war.
an escalation in food prices
further escalation of the conflict
escalopes of veal
Isabel's latest romantic escapade
Two prisoners have escaped.
He escaped from prison this morning.
She managed to escape from the burning car.
(figurative) As a child he would often escape into a dream world of his own.
They were glad to have escaped the clutches of winter for another year.
She was lucky to escape punishment.
The pilot escaped death by seconds.
There was no escaping the fact that he was overweight.
He narrowly escaped being killed.
I was lucky to escape with minor injuries.
Both drivers escaped unhurt.
Her name escapes me (= I can't remember it).
It might have escaped your notice, but I'm very busy at the moment.
Put a lid on to prevent heat escaping.
toxic waste escaping into the sea
A groan escaped her lips.
an escape from a prisoner of war camp
I had a narrow escape (= I was lucky to have escaped).
There was no hope of escape from her disastrous marriage.
He took an elaborate escape route from South Africa to Britain.
As soon as he turned his back, she would make her escape.
For her, travel was an escape from the boredom of her everyday life.
an escape of gas
Press escape to get back to the menu.
an escaped prisoner/lion
the pure escapism of adventure movies
For John, books are a form of escapism.
Armed escorts are provided for visiting heads of state.
Prisoners are taken to court under police escort.
an escort service/agency
The President arrived, escorted by twelve soldiers.
His paintings capture the essence of France.
In essence (= when you consider the most important points), your situation isn't so different from mine.
essence of rose
(BrE) coffee/vanilla/almond essence
In this situation time is of the essence (= we must do things as quickly as possible).
an essential part/ingredient/component of sth
essential services such as gas, water and electricity
The museum is closed while essential repairs are being carried out.
Even in small companies, computers are an essential tool.
Money is not essential to happiness.
It is essential to keep the two groups separate.
It is essential that you have some experience.
The essential difference between Sara and me is in our attitude to money.
The essential character of the town has been destroyed by the new road.
I only had time to pack the bare essentials (= the most necessary things).
The studio had all the essentials like heating and running water.
the essentials of English grammar
a matter of especial importance
The lecture will be of especial interest to history students.
The car is quite small, especially if you have children.
Teenagers are very fashion conscious, especially girls.
I love Rome, especially in the spring.
I made it especially for you.
I wasn't feeling especially happy that day.
'Do you like his novels?' 'Not especially.'
Some of the commercial activities were a cover for espionage.
She may call it research; I call it industrial espionage.
They espoused the notion of equal opportunity for all in education.
his recent espousal of populism
Edward Smith, Esq.
an essay on the causes of the First World War
His first essay in politics was a complete disaster.
There are three essentially different ways of tackling the problem.
The pattern is essentially the same in all cases.
Essentially, what we are suggesting is that the firm needs to change.
He was, essentially, a teacher, not a manager.
The article was essentially concerned with her relationship with her parents (= it dealt with other things, but this was the most important).
The committee was established in 1912.
The new treaty establishes a free trade zone.
The school has established a successful relationship with the local community.
By then she was established as a star.
He has just set up his own business but it will take him a while to get established.
It was this campaign that established the paper's reputation.
Traditions get established over time.
Police are still trying to establish the cause of the accident.
They have established that his injuries were caused by a fall.
We need to establish where she was at the time of the shooting.
It has since been established that the horse was drugged.
They are an established company with a good reputation.
This unit is now an established part of the course.
an established actor
an educational establishment
a research establishment
The hotel is a comfortable and well-run establishment.
the medical/military/political, etc. establishment
young people rebelling against the Establishment
The speaker announced the establishment of a new college.
the establishment of diplomatic relations between the countries
She lives in a tower block on an estate in London.
Her estate was left to her daughter.
She is held in high esteem by her colleagues.
Please accept this small gift as a token of our esteem.
a highly esteemed scientist
She was esteemed the perfect novelist.
I can give you a rough estimate of the amount of wood you will need.
a ballpark estimate (= an approximate estimate)
official government estimates of traffic growth over the next decade
At least 5 000 people were killed, and that's a conservative estimate (= the real figure will be higher).
The satellite will cost an estimated £400 million.
Police estimate the crowd at 30 000.
The deal is estimated to be worth around $1.5 million.
We estimated (that) it would cost about €5 000.
It is estimated (that) the project will last four years.
It is hard to estimate how many children suffer from dyslexia.
Who is the best candidate in your estimation?
Since he left his wife he's certainly gone down in my estimation (= I have less respect for him).
She went up in my estimation (= I have more respect for her) when I discovered how much charity work she does.
Estimations of our total world sales are around 50 million.
his estranged wife Emma
He became estranged from his family after the argument.
She felt estranged from her former existence.
a period of estrangement from his wife
The misunderstanding had caused a seven-year estrangement between them.
the Thames estuary
research by West et al., 2012
Remember to take some paper, a pen, etc.
We talked about the contract, pay, etc.
a glass tankard with his initials etched on it
a glass tankard etched with his initials
Tiredness was etched on his face.
His face was etched with tiredness.
a mountain etched (= having a clear outline) against the sky
the promise of eternal life in heaven
She's an eternal optimist (= she always expects that the best will happen).
eternal truths (= ideas that are always true and never change)
I'm tired of your eternal arguments.
I'll be eternally grateful to you for this.
women trying to look eternally young
There will be rich and poor for all eternity.
They believed that their souls would be condemned to burn in hell for eternity.
After what seemed like an eternity the nurse returned with the results of the test.
Her words disappeared into the ether.
ethereal music
her ethereal beauty
professional/business/medical ethics
to draw up a code of ethics
He began to question the ethics of his position.
a strongly defined work ethic
the Protestant ethic
ethical issues/standards/questions
the ethical problems of human embryo research
Is it ethical to promote cigarettes through advertising?
ethical investment (= investing money in businesses that are considered morally acceptable)
The committee judged that he had not behaved ethically.
ethnic groups/communities
ethnic strife/tensions/violence (= between people from different races or peoples)
ethnic Albanians living in Germany
ethnic clothes/jewellery/cooking
an ethnically divided region
Many factors are important, for example class, gender, age and ethnicity.
a white, ethnocentric school curriculum
ethnographic research
an ethos of public service
ethyl acetate
advice on etiquette
medical/legal/professional etiquette
an etymological dictionary
a eulogy to marriage
He was eulogized as a hero.
a political eunuch
'Pass away' is a euphemism for 'die'.
'User fees' is just a politician's euphemism for taxes.
euphemistic language
The prison camps were euphemistically called 'retraining centres'.
the Centre for Russian and Eurasian Studies
Singapore Eurasians
The price is given in dollars or euros.
I paid five euros for it.
10 million euro
a 30-million-euro deal
the value of the euro against the dollar
Euro rules
a Euro-MP
Euro-elections
western/eastern/central Europe
countries wanting to join Europe
He's very pro-Europe.
British holidaymakers in Europe
European languages
European law
our European partners
a good European
a Europeanized American
They argued in favour of legalizing voluntary euthanasia (= people being able to ask for euthanasia themselves).
Police evacuated nearby buildings.
Children were evacuated from London to escape the bombing.
Employees were urged to evacuate their offices immediately.
Locals were told to evacuate.
the emergency evacuation of thousands of people after the earthquake
For two weeks they evaded the press.
He managed to evade capture.
to evade payment of taxes
She is trying to evade all responsibility for her behaviour.
Come on, don't you think you're evading the issue?
to evade answering a question
The answer evaded him (= he could not think of it).
Our research attempts to evaluate the effectiveness of the different drugs.
We need to evaluate how well the policy is working.
an evaluation of the health care system
They're evangelical Christians.
He delivered his speech with evangelical fervour.
an evangelistic meeting
Heat until all the water has evaporated.
The sun is constantly evaporating the earth's moisture.
Her confidence had now completely evaporated.
His behaviour was an evasion of his responsibilities as a father.
She's been charged with tax evasion.
His speech was full of evasions and half-truths.
evasive answers/comments/replies
Tessa was evasive about why she had not been at home that night.
'I'm not sure,' she replied evasively.
Christmas Eve (= 24 December)
a New Year's Eve party (= on 31 December)
on the eve of the election
He never even opened the letter (= so he certainly didn't read it).
It was cold there even in summer (= so it must have been very cold in winter).
Even a child can understand it (= so adults certainly can).
She didn't even call to say she wasn't coming.
You know even less about it than I do.
She's even more intelligent than her sister.
It's an unattractive building, ugly even.
Even as he shouted the warning the car skidded.
I'll get there, even if I have to walk.
I like her, even though she can be annoying at times.
I've shown him the photographs but even now he won't believe me.
Even then she would not admit her mistake.
The troops are even now preparing to march into the city.
There are a lot of spelling mistakes; even so, it's quite a good essay.
No explanation was offered, still less an apology.
You need an even surface to work on.
an even temperature all year
Children do not learn at an even pace.
Our scores are now even.
the even distribution of food
an even contest
The two players were pretty even.
4, 6, 8, 10 are all even numbers.
even features/teeth
She has a very even temperament.
He spoke in a steady, even voice.
House prices keep rising and falling but they should eventually even out.
He tried to even out the distribution of work among his employees.
I'll see you tomorrow evening.
Come over on Thursday evening.
What do you usually do in the evening?
She's going to her sister's for the evening.
the long winter evenings
the evening performance
a musical evening at school (= when music is performed)
He works evenings.
an evening class in car maintenance
to go to/attend evening classes
Everyone was in evening dress.
Make sure the paint covers the surface evenly.
She was fast asleep, breathing evenly.
evenly spaced at four cm apart
evenly distributed/divided
Incidence of the disease is fairly evenly spread across Europe.
The two teams are very evenly matched (= are equally likely to win).
'I warned you not to phone me,' he said evenly.
The election was the main event of 2008.
In the light of later events the decision was proved right.
The decisions we take now may influence the course of events (= the way things happen) in the future.
Everyone was frightened by the strange sequence of events.
In the normal course of events (= if things had happened as expected) she would have gone with him.
a fund-raising event
the social event of the year
The 800 metres is the fourth event of the afternoon.
I got very nervous about the exam, but in the event, I needn't have worried; it was really easy.
In that event, we will have to reconsider our offer.
an eventful day/life/journey
the eventual winner of the tournament
It is impossible to predict what the eventual outcome will be.
The village school may face eventual closure.
We were prepared for every eventuality.
The money had been saved for just such an eventuality.
Our flight eventually left five hours late.
I'll get round to mending it eventually.
She hopes to get a job on the local newspaper and eventually work for 'The Times'.
Nothing ever happens here.
Don't you ever get tired?
If you're ever in Miami, come and see us.
'Have you ever thought of changing your job?' 'No, never/No I haven't.'
'Have you ever been to Rome?' 'Yes, I have, actually. Not long ago.'
She hardly ever (= almost never) goes out.
We see them very seldom, if ever.
(informal) I'll never ever do that again!
It was raining harder than ever.
It's my best ever score.
Paul, ever the optimist, agreed to try again.
She married the prince and they lived happily ever after.
He said he would love her for ever (and ever).
Their debts grew ever larger (= kept increasing).
the ever-growing problem
an ever-present danger
Why ever did you agree?
He's had a car ever since he was 18.
I was bitten by a dog once and I've been afraid of them ever since.
He looks ever so smart.
She's ever such a nice woman.
It's ever so easy.
That was a disaster if ever there was one!
'You must have been upset by that.' 'Was I ever!'
evergreen shrubs
(figurative) a new production of Rossini's evergreen (= always popular) opera
everlasting life/love
an everlasting memory of her smile
To his everlasting credit, he never told anyone what I'd done.
I'm tired of your everlasting complaints.
She knows every student in the school.
I could hear every word they said.
We enjoyed every minute of our stay.
Every day seemed the same to him.
Every single time he calls, I'm out.
I read every last article in the newspaper (= all of them).
They were watching her every movement.
Every one of their CDs has been a hit.
We wish you every success.
He had every reason to be angry.
The buses go every 10 minutes.
We had to stop every few miles.
One in every three marriages ends in divorce.
He has every third day off (= he works for two days, then has one day off, then works for two days and so on).
We see each other every now and again.
Every now and then he regretted his decision.
They visit us every other week.
The doctor examined every inch of his body.
(figurative) If they try to fire me I'll fight them every inch of the way.
In his first game the young player already looked every inch a winner.
We spent every last penny we had on the house.
In business, it's every man for himself.
We collected £700 and every penny went to charity.
I don't really like cities—give me the countryside every time.
Her hair tumbled every which way.
Everybody knows Tom.
Have you asked everybody?
Didn't you like it? Everybody else did.
everyday objects
The Internet has become part of everyday life.
a small dictionary for everyday use
a story of Everyman
Everyone cheered and clapped.
Everyone has a chance to win.
Everyone brought their partner to the party.
(formal) Everyone brought his or her partner to the party.
The police questioned everyone in the room.
The teacher commented on everyone's work.
Everyone else was there.
Everything had gone.
When we confronted him, he denied everything.
Take this bag, and leave everything else to me.
She seemed to have everything —looks, money, intelligence.
Everything in the capital is now quiet.
'How's everything with you?' 'Fine, thanks.'
Money isn't everything.
My family means everything to me.
I've looked everywhere.
He follows me everywhere.
We'll have to eat here— everywhere else is full.
Everywhere we went was full of tourists.
A number of tenants have been evicted for not paying the rent.
to face eviction from your home
There is convincing evidence of a link between exposure to sun and skin cancer.
The room bore evidence of a struggle.
We found further scientific evidence for this theory.
There is not a shred of evidence that the meeting actually took place.
Have you any evidence to support this allegation?
On the evidence of their recent matches, it is unlikely the Spanish team will win the cup.
I was asked to give evidence (= to say what I knew, describe what I had seen, etc.) at the trial.
He was released when the judge ruled there was no evidence against him.
The legal profession is still a largely male world, as evidenced by the small number of women judges.
It has now become evident to us that a mistake has been made.
The growing interest in history is clearly evident in the number of people visiting museums and country houses.
She walked slowly down the road, evidently in pain.
'I'm afraid I couldn't finish the work last night.' 'Evidently not.'
Evidently, she had nothing to do with the whole affair.
The necessary evidential basis for her claim is lacking.
an evil man
an evil grin
evil deeds
the evil effects of racism
evil spirits
an evil smell
the eternal struggle between good and evil
the forces of evil
You cannot pretend there's no evil in the world.
the evils of drugs/alcohol
social evils
to grin evilly
to look evilly at sb
He evinced a strong desire to be reconciled with his family.
The music evoked memories of her youth.
His case is unlikely to evoke public sympathy.
a brilliant evocation of childhood in the 1940s
evocative smells/sounds/music
Her new book is wonderfully evocative of village life.
the evolution of the human species
Darwin's theory of evolution
In politics Britain has preferred evolution to revolution (= gradual development to sudden violent change).
evolutionary theory
evolutionary change
The idea evolved from a drawing I discovered in the attic.
The company has evolved into a major chemical manufacturer.
Each school must evolve its own way of working.
The three species evolved from a single ancestor.
The dolphin has evolved a highly developed jaw.
Eww! There's a fly in my lemonade!
The children are spending the weekend with my ex and his new wife.
The price is £1 500 ex VAT.
The Pope was speaking ex cathedra.
ex gratia payments
The sum was paid ex gratia.
ex libris David Harries
an ex officio member of the committee
ex-wife
ex-president
an ex-directory number
She's ex-directory.
ex-service personnel
exajoule
The symptoms may be exacerbated by certain drugs.
She gave an exact description of the attacker.
an exact copy/replica of the painting
We need to know the exact time the incident occurred.
What were his exact words?
She's in her mid-thirties—thirty-six to be exact.
The colours were an exact match.
He started to phone me at the exact moment I started to phone him (= at the same time).
Her second husband was the exact opposite of her first (= completely different).
Assessing insurance risk can never be an exact science.
She was determined to exact a promise from him.
He exacted (= took) a terrible revenge for their treatment of him.
Stress can exact a high price from workers (= can affect them badly).
exacting work
products designed to meet the exacting standards of today's marketplace
He was an exacting man to work for.
I know exactly how she felt.
Do exactly as I tell you.
It happened almost exactly a year ago.
It's exactly nine o'clock.
You haven't changed at all—you still look exactly the same.
His words had exactly the opposite effect.
Your answer is exactly right.
It was a warm day, if not exactly hot.
Where exactly did you stay in France?
(disapproving) Exactly what are you trying to tell me?
'You mean somebody in this room must be the murderer?' 'Exactly.'
He wasn't exactly pleased to see us—in fact he refused to open the door.
It's not exactly beautiful, is it?(= it's ugly)
'So he told you you'd got the job?' 'Not exactly, but he said they were impressed with me.'
The hotel was really filthy and I'm not exaggerating.
He tends to exaggerate the difficulties.
I'm sure he exaggerates his Irish accent (= tries to sound more Irish than he really is).
Demand for the product has been greatly exaggerated.
to make greatly/grossly/wildly exaggerated claims
She has an exaggerated sense of her own importance.
He looked at me with exaggerated surprise.
a slight/gross/wild exaggeration
It would be an exaggeration to say I knew her well—I only met her twice.
It's no exaggeration to say that most students have never read a complete Shakespeare play.
He told his story simply and without exaggeration.
the exaltation of emotion above logical reasoning
She was the only woman to rise to such an exalted position.
You're moving in very exalted circles!
I felt exalted and newly alive.
to take an exam
to pass/fail an exam
an exam paper
I got my exam results today.
A lot of students suffer from exam nerves.
(BrE) I hate doing exams.
(BrE, formal) to sit an exam
(BrE) to mark an exam
(NAmE) to grade an exam
(BrE) She did well in her exams.
(NAmE) She did well on her exams.
a trivia quiz
a quiz show
an eye exam
to sit an examination in mathematics
successful candidates in GCSE examinations
Applicants are selected for jobs on the results of a competitive examination.
Careful examination of the ruins revealed an even earlier temple.
On closer examination it was found that the signature was not genuine.
Your proposals are still under examination.
The issue needs further examination.
The chapter concludes with a brief examination of some of the factors causing family break-up.
a medical examination
a post-mortem examination
It is necessary to examine how the proposals can be carried out.
The doctor examined her but could find nothing wrong.
The goods were examined for damage on arrival.
The students will be examined in all subjects at the end of term.
You are only being examined on this semester's work.
The papers are sent to external examiners (= ones not connected with the students' school or college).
This dictionary has many examples of how words are used.
Just to give you an example of his generosity—he gave me his old car and wouldn't take any money for it.
It is important to cite examples to support your argument.
This is a good example of the artist's early work.
It is a perfect example of a medieval castle.
Japan is often quoted as the prime example of a modern industrial nation.
It is a classic example of how not to design a new city centre.
Her courage is an example to us all.
He sets an example to the other students.
She is a shining example of what people with disabilities can achieve.
He is a captain who leads by example.
It would be a mistake to follow his example.
There is a similar word in many languages, for example in French and Italian.
The report is incomplete; it does not include sales in France, for example.
It is possible to combine Computer Science with other subjects, for example Physics.
The interest on the money is exempt from tax.
Some students are exempt from certain exams.
tax-exempt donations to charity
His bad eyesight exempted him from military service.
Charities were exempted from paying the tax.
'Why won't you answer me?' he asked in an exasperated voice.
She was becoming exasperated with all the questions they were asking.
He shook his head in exasperation.
a groan/look/sigh of exasperation
The site has been excavated by archaeologists.
pottery and weapons excavated from the burial site
The body was discovered when builders excavated the area.
The excavations are open to the public.
He was executed for treason.
The prisoners were executed by firing squad.
They drew up and executed a plan to reduce fuel consumption.
The crime was very cleverly executed.
Check that the computer has executed your commands.
The pilot executed a perfect landing.
Picasso also executed several landscapes at Horta de San Juan.
He faced execution by hanging for murder.
Over 200 executions were carried out last year.
He had failed in the execution of his duty.
The idea was good, but the execution was poor.
Her execution of the piano piece was perfect.
The price will not exceed £100.
His achievements have exceeded expectations.
She was exceeding the speed limit (= driving faster than is allowed).
The officers had exceeded their authority.
She has always excelled in foreign languages.
As a child he excelled at music and art.
The team excels at turning defence into attack.
Rick's cooking was always good but this time he really excelled himself.
an excellent meal
excellent service
At $300 the bike is excellent value.
She speaks excellent French.
(informal) It was absolutely excellent.
The rooms are excellent value at $20 a night.
He speaks excellent English.
You can all come? Excellent!
an outstanding achievement
Conditions were perfect for walking.
She came up with the perfect excuse.
The facilities at the hotel are superb.
a reputation for academic excellence
The hospital is recognized as a centre of excellence in research and teaching.
Good evening, your Excellency.
their Excellencies the French and Spanish Ambassadors
We work every day except Sunday.
They all came except Matt.
I had nothing on except for my socks.
I didn't tell him anything except that I needed the money.
Our dresses were the same except mine was red.
The sanctions ban the sale of any products excepting medical supplies and food.
Tours are arranged all year round (January excepted).
Children under five are excepted from the survey.
Most of the buildings in the town are modern, but the church is an exception.
With very few exceptions, private schools get the best exam results.
Nobody had much money at the time and I was no exception.
Good writing is unfortunately the exception rather than the rule (= it is unusual).
There are always a lot of exceptions to grammar rules.
Children are not usually allowed in, but I'm prepared to make an exception in this case.
I take great exception to the fact that you told my wife before you told me.
No one could possibly take exception to his comments.
All his novels are set in Italy with the exception of his last.
All students without exception must take the English examination.
At the age of five he showed exceptional talent as a musician.
The quality of the recording is quite exceptional.
This deadline will be extended only in exceptional circumstances.
The weather, even for January, was exceptionally cold.
I thought Bill played exceptionally well.
Exceptionally, students may be accepted without formal qualifications.
Swimming is good exercise.
I don't get much exercise sitting in the office all day.
The mind needs exercise as well as the body.
vigorous/gentle exercise
(BrE) to take exercise
breathing/relaxation/stretching exercises
exercises for the piano
Repeat the exercise ten times on each leg.
grammar exercises
Do exercise one for homework.
the exercise of power by the government
the exercise of discretion
a communications exercise
In the end it proved a pointless exercise.
an exercise in public relations
Staying calm was an exercise in self-control.
military exercises
college graduation exercises
When she appeared in court she exercised her right to remain silent.
He was a man who exercised considerable influence over people.
an hour's class of exercising to music
How often do you exercise?
Horses need to be exercised regularly.
These movements will exercise your arms and shoulders.
The document was excerpted from an unidentified FBI file.
You can throw away any excess.
Are you suffering from an excess of stress in your life?
In an excess of enthusiasm I agreed to work late.
He started drinking to excess after losing his job.
The increase will not be in excess of (= more than) two per cent.
We cover costs up to £600 and then you pay the excess.
There is an excess of £100 on each claim under this policy.
the worst excesses committed by the occupying army
Excess food is stored as fat.
Driving with excess alcohol in the blood is a serious offence.
The exchange of prisoners took place this morning.
We need to promote an open exchange of ideas and information.
an exchange of glances/insults
an exchange of fire (= between enemy soldiers)
I buy you lunch and you fix my computer. Is that a fair exchange?
Would you like my old TV in exchange for this camera?
I'll type your report if you'll babysit in exchange.
There was only time for a brief exchange.
The Prime Minister was involved in a heated exchange with Opposition MPs.
currency exchange facilities
Where can I find the best exchange rate / rate of exchange?
Our school does an exchange with a school in France.
Nick went on the French exchange.
trade and cultural exchanges with China
the old Corn Exchange
to exchange ideas/news/information
Juliet and David exchanged glances (= they looked at each other).
Everyone in the group exchanged email addresses.
I shook hands and exchanged a few words with the manager.
The two men exchanged blows (= hit each other).
If it doesn't fit, take it back and the store will exchange it.
You can exchange your currency for dollars in the hotel.
We've had words.
Words were exchanged.
These tokens are exchangeable for DVDs only.
This resulted in a considerable loss to the exchequer.
new excise duties on low-alcohol drinks
a sharp increase in vehicle excise
an excise officer (= an official whose job is to collect excise )
Certain passages were excised from the book.
a class of excitable ten-year-olds
The prospect of a year in India greatly excited her.
Try not to excite your baby too much before bedtime.
Don't excite yourself (= keep calm).
to excite attention/criticism/curiosity
The news has certainly excited comment (= made people talk about it).
The European Parliament is not an institution which excites interest in voters.
The children were excited about opening their presents.
I'm really excited at the prospect of working abroad.
Don't get too excited by the sight of your name in print.
He was very excited to be asked to play for Wales.
The new restaurant is nothing to get excited about (= not particularly good).
An excited crowd of people gathered around her.
Some horses become excited when they're in traffic.
She waved excitedly as the car approached.
The news caused great excitement among her friends.
to feel a surge/thrill/shiver of excitement
He was flushed with excitement at the thought.
The dog leapt and wagged its tail in excitement.
In her excitement she dropped her glass.
The new job was not without its excitements.
one of the most exciting developments in biology in recent years
They waited and waited for something exciting to happen.
an exciting prospect/possibility
an exciting story/discovery
She opened her eyes and exclaimed in delight at the scene.
'It isn't fair!', he exclaimed angrily.
She exclaimed that it was useless.
He gave an exclamation of surprise.
The cost of borrowing has been excluded from the inflation figures.
Try excluding fat from your diet.
Buses run every hour, Sundays excluded.
Women are still excluded from some London clubs.
(BrE) Concern is growing over the number of children excluded from school (= not allowed to attend because of bad behaviour).
She felt excluded by the other girls (= they did not let her join in what they were doing).
We should not exclude the possibility of negotiation.
The police have excluded theft as a motive for the murder.
Lunch costs £10 per person, excluding drinks.
He was disappointed with his exclusion from the England squad.
Exclusion of air creates a vacuum in the bottle.
Memories of the past filled her mind to the exclusion of all else.
Check the list of exclusions in the insurance policy.
the exclusion of robbery as a motive
the exclusion of disruptive students from school
Two exclusions from one school in the same week is unusual.
The judge placed an exclusion order on him, banning him from city centre shops.
The hotel has exclusive access to the beach.
exclusive rights to televise the World Cup
His mother has told 'The Times' about his death in an exclusive interview (= not given to any other newspaper).
He belongs to an exclusive club.
an exclusive hotel
exclusive designer clothes
The two options are not mutually exclusive (= you can have them both).
The price is for accommodation only, exclusive of meals.
a charity that relies almost exclusively on voluntary contributions
The resort still preserves a feeling of exclusivity.
a designer whose clothes have not lost their exclusiveness
the pollution of drinking water by untreated human excrement
(figurative) The new office block is an excrescence (= it is very ugly).
human excreta
the excretory organs
The pain in my back was excruciating.
She groaned at the memory, suffering all over again the excruciating embarrassment of those moments.
excruciatingly uncomfortable
excruciatingly painful/boring/embarrassing
They've gone on an excursion to York.
After a brief excursion into drama, he concentrated on his main interest, which was poetry.
Doing it once was just about excusable—doing it twice was certainly not.
There's no excuse for such behaviour.
His excuse for forgetting her birthday was that he had lost his diary.
You don't have to make excuses for her (= try to think of reasons for her behaviour).
It's late. I'm afraid I'll have to make my excuses (= say I'm sorry, give my reasons and leave).
It's just an excuse for a party.
It gave me an excuse to take the car.
Why get involved with that pathetic excuse for a human being?
Please excuse the mess.
You must excuse my father—he's not always that rude.
I hope you'll excuse me for being so late.
(BrE) You might be excused for thinking that Ben is in charge (= he is not, but it is an easy mistake to make).
(formal) Excuse my interrupting you.
Nothing can excuse such rudeness.
Now if you'll excuse me, I'm a very busy man.
She excused herself and left the meeting early.
She was excused from giving evidence because of her age.
Excuse me, is this the way to the station?
Excuse me, could you let me through?
Guy sneezed loudly. 'Excuse me,' he said.
Excuse me, but I don't think that's true.
'Excuse me for a moment,' she said and left the room.
Oh, excuse me. I didn't see you there.
advertising/business/sales, etc. executives
a chief/senior/top executive in a computer firm
The union's executive has/have yet to reach a decision.
She has an executive position in a finance company.
executive decisions/duties/jobs/positions
the executive dining room
executive authority
an executive board/body/committee/officer
Executive power is held by the president.
an executive car/home
an executive suite (= in a hotel)
an executive lounge (= at an airport)
Her behaviour was exemplary.
a man of exemplary character
Her early work is exemplified in her book, 'A Study of Children's Minds'.
His food exemplifies Italian cooking at its best.
She exemplified each of the points she was making with an amusing anecdote.
She was given exemption from the final examination.
a tax exemption on money donated to charity
He exerted all his authority to make them accept the plan.
The moon exerts a force on the earth that causes the tides.
In order to be successful he would have to exert himself.
the external walls of the building
The lotion is for external use only (= only for the skin and must not be swallowed).
A combination of internal and external factors caused the company to close down.
external pressures on the economy
Many external influences can affect your state of mind.
(BrE) external examiners/assessors
An external auditor will verify the accounts.
The government is committed to reducing the country's external debt.
the Minister of State for External Affairs
The building has been restored externally and internally.
The university has many externally funded research projects.
She was hot and breathless from the exertion of cycling uphill.
He needed to relax after the exertions of a busy day at work.
the exertion of force/strength/authority
He sat back and exhaled deeply.
She exhaled the smoke through her nose.
car exhaust fumes/emissions
My car needs a new exhaust.
Even a short walk exhausted her.
There's no need to exhaust yourself clearing up—we'll do it.
Within three days they had exhausted their supply of food.
Don't give up until you have exhausted all the possibilities.
I think we've exhausted that particular topic.
I'm exhausted!
to feel completely/utterly exhausted
The exhausted climbers were rescued by helicopter.
You cannot grow crops on exhausted land.
an exhausting day at work
I find her exhausting—she never stops talking.
suffering from physical/mental/nervous exhaustion
Her face was grey with exhaustion.
the exhaustion of natural resources
exhaustive research/tests
This list is not intended to be exhaustive.
Every product is exhaustively tested before being sold.
They will be exhibiting their new designs at the trade fairs.
He exhibits regularly in local art galleries.
The patient exhibited signs of fatigue and memory loss.
The first exhibit was a knife which the prosecution claimed was the murder weapon.
The new exhibit will tour a dozen US cities next year.
Have you seen the Picasso exhibition?
an exhibition of old photographs
She refused to allow the exhibition of her husband's work.
We were treated to an exhibition of the footballer's speed and skill.
an appalling exhibition of bad manners
Children are natural exhibitionists.
Speed had always exhilarated him.
I felt exhilarated after a morning of skiing.
the exhilaration of performing on stage
exorbitant costs/fares/fees/prices/rents
Prices are exorbitantly high in this shop.
The party leader exhorted his members to start preparing for government.
They had been exhorted to action.
'Come on!' he exhorted (them).
She gave an exuberant performance.
an exuberant personality/imagination
a picture painted in exuberant reds and yellows
We can excuse his behaviour as youthful exuberance.
to be/live in exile
to be forced/sent into exile
to go into exile
a place of exile
He returned after 40 years of exile.
political exiles
a tax exile (= a rich person who moves to another country where taxes are lower)
the party's exiled leaders
New laws will soon replace existing legislation.
Does life exist on other planets?
The problem only exists in your head, Jane.
Few of these monkeys still exist in the wild.
On his retirement the post will cease to exist.
The charity exists to support victims of crime.
We existed on a diet of rice.
They can't exist on the money he's earning.
I was unaware of his existence until today.
This is the oldest Hebrew manuscript in existence.
Pakistan came into existence as an independent country in 1947.
a crisis that threatens the industry's continued existence
The family endured a miserable existence in a cramped apartment.
We led a poor but happy enough existence as children.
They eke out a precarious existence (= they have hardly enough money to live on).
The peasants depend on a good harvest for their very existence (= in order to continue to live).
creatures existent in nature
The self is the only knowable existent.
Sartre was an existentialist.
existentialist theory
Where's the exit?
There is a fire exit on each floor of the building.
The emergency exit is at the back of the bus.
The heroine made her exit to great applause.
He made a quick exit to avoid meeting her.
an exit visa (= a stamp in a passport giving sb permission to leave a particular country)
Leave the roundabout at the second exit.
Take the exit for Brno.
The bullet entered her back and exited through her chest.
We exited via a fire door.
As the actors exited the stage the lights went on.
To exit from this page, press the return key.
I exited the database and switched off the computer.
a high school exit exam
exocrine glands
the mass exodus from Paris to the country in the summer
The police report exonerated Lewis from all charges of corruption.
She had managed to exorcise these unhappy memories from her mind.
brightly-coloured exotic flowers/plants/birds
She travels to all kinds of exotic locations all over the world.
rainbows of exotically coloured blooms
First, I'll explain the rules of the game.
It was difficult to explain the problem to beginners.
'Let me explain!' he added helpfully.
I explained that an ambulance would be coming soon.
He explained who each person in the photo was.
She explained to them what to do in an emergency.
'It works like this,' she explained.
It was explained that attendance was compulsory.
She tried to explain but he wouldn't listen.
Alex explained that his car had broken down.
Well, that doesn't explain why you didn't phone.
scientific findings that help explain the origins of the universe
The government now has to explain its decision to the public.
(informal) Oh well then, that explains it (= I understand now why sth happened).
Can you explain the situation to me?
I'll explain to you why I like it.
I really don't see why I should have to explain myself to you.
Could you explain yourself a little more—I didn't understand.
Metals expand when they are heated.
Student numbers are expanding rapidly.
A child's vocabulary expands through reading.
The waist expands to fit all sizes.
In breathing the chest muscles expand the rib cage and allow air to be sucked into the lungs.
The new system expanded the role of family doctors.
There are no plans to expand the local airport.
an expanding economy (= with more businesses starting and growing)
We've expanded the business by opening two more stores.
I repeated the question and waited for her to expand.
Could you expand on that point, please?
an expandable briefcase
The system has 1GB RAM, expandable to 4GB.
a wide/vast expanse of blue sky
flat expanses of open farmland
a period of rapid economic expansion
Despite the recession the company is confident of further expansion.
The book is an expansion of a series of lectures given last year.
This budget will have a net expansionary effect on the economy.
the economic expansionism of America
military/territorial expansionism
expansionist policies
He was a ruthless expansionist.
She opened her arms wide in an expansive gesture of welcome.
landscape with expansive skies
We need to look at a more expansive definition of the term.
The piece is written in his usual expansive style.
She was clearly relaxed and in an expansive mood.
In the expansive 1990s bright graduates could advance rapidly.
He waved his arms expansively.
American expatriates in Paris
expatriate Britons in Spain
expatriate workers
We are expecting a rise in food prices this month.
Don't expect sympathy from me!
That's not the sort of behaviour I expect of you!
You can't expect to learn a foreign language in a few months.
I looked back, half expecting to see someone following me.
House prices are expected to rise sharply.
Do you really expect me to believe you?
Many people were expecting (that) the peace talks would break down.
It is expected that the report will suggest some major reforms.
The number of people using mobile phones to purchase goods and services is expected / likely to more than double by the end of 2015.
Experts have predicted / forecast that the number of people using their mobile phones to pay for goods and services should exceed 190 million in 2015.
This figure is set to reach 200 million by 2016.
By 2015, 800 million mobile phone users worldwide will be participating in social networks via their phone.
Sales of mobile phones in 2009 were lower than expected. *
The company's announcement of 1.26 billion handsets sold for the year is in line with predictions.
to expect a visit/call/letter from sb
Are you expecting visitors?
We were expecting him yesterday.
We were expecting him to arrive yesterday.
Her parents expected high standards from her.
He's still getting over his illness, so don't expect too much from him.
Are you clear what is expected of you?
They expected all their children to be high achievers.
I expect to be paid promptly for the work.
'Will you be late?' ' I expect so.'
'Are you going out tonight?' ' I don't expect so.'
'Who's eaten all the cake?' 'Tom, I expect/I expect it was Tom.'
She swore at you? What do you expect when you treat her like that?
There was an air of expectancy among the waiting crowd.
children with expectant faces waiting for the fireworks to begin
A sudden roar came from the expectant crowd.
She looked at him expectantly.
waiting expectantly
We are confident in our expectation of a full recovery.
There was a general expectation that he would win.
The expectation is that property prices will rise.
I applied for the post more in hope than expectation.
Contrary to expectations, interest rates did not rise.
Against all expectations, she was enjoying herself.
She went to college with great expectations.
There was an air of expectation and great curiosity.
The results exceeded our expectations.
The numbers attending fell short of expectations.
The event did not live up to expectations.
Some parents have unrealistic expectations of their children.
Unfortunately the new software has failed to meet expectations.
Double the expected number of people came to the meeting.
this year's expected earnings
The disease was controlled by the simple expedient of not allowing anyone to leave the city.
The government has clearly decided that a cut in interest rates would be politically expedient.
He acted out of expediency, not principle.
We have developed rapid order processing to expedite deliveries to customers.
to plan/lead/go on an expedition to the North Pole
Five members of Scott's expedition made it to the South Pole.
a shopping expedition
She was expelled from school at 15.
Olympic athletes expelled for drug-taking
Foreign journalists are being expelled.
to expel air from the lungs
No expense was spared (= they spent as much money as was needed) to make the party a success.
He's arranged everything, no expense spared.
She always travels first-class regardless of expense.
The results are well worth the expense.
living/household/medical/legal, etc. expenses
Can I give you something towards expenses?
financial help to meet the expenses of an emergency
The payments he gets barely cover his expenses.
You can claim back your travelling/travel expenses.
(BrE) to take a client out for a meal on expenses
an all-expenses-paid trip
They went to all the expense of redecorating the house and then they moved.
Their visit put us to a lot of expense.
He always travels first class—expense is no object.
She expended all her efforts on the care of home and children.
a reduction in public/government/military expenditure
plans to increase expenditure on health
The budget provided for a total expenditure of £27 billion.
the expenditure of emotion
This study represents a major expenditure of time and effort.
an expensive car/restaurant/holiday
Art books are expensive to produce.
I can't afford it, it's too expensive.
Making the wrong decision could prove expensive.
That dress was an expensive mistake.
expensively dressed/furnished
There are other restaurants where you can eat less expensively.
to have over ten years' teaching experience
Do you have any previous experience of this type of work?
a doctor with experience in dealing with patients suffering from stress
My lack of practical experience was a disadvantage.
She didn't get paid much but it was all good experience.
He gained valuable experience whilst working on the project.
We all learn by experience.
Experience has taught me that life can be very unfair.
It is important to try and learn from experience.
In my experience, very few people really understand the problem.
She knew from past experience that Ann would not give up easily.
The book is based on personal experience.
direct/first-hand experience of poverty
an enjoyable/exciting/unusual/unforgettable, etc. experience
It was her first experience of living alone.
Living in Africa was very different from home and quite an experience (= unusual for us).
I had a bad experience with fireworks once.
He seems to have had some sort of religious experience.
musical forms like jazz that emerged out of the Black American experience
The country experienced a foreign currency shortage for several months.
Everyone experiences these problems at some time in their lives.
to experience pain/pleasure/unhappiness
I experienced a moment of panic as I boarded the plane.
an experienced teacher
He's very experienced in looking after animals.
She's very young and not very experienced.
an experienced traveller (= sb who has travelled a lot)
experiential knowledge
experiential learning methods
to do/perform/conduct an experiment
proved by experiment
laboratory experiments
Many people do not like the idea of experiments on animals.
I've never cooked this before so it's an experiment.
the country's brief experiment in democracy
Some people feel that experimenting on animals is wrong.
I experimented until I got the recipe just right.
He wanted to experiment more with different textures in his paintings.
experimental teaching methods
experimental theatre/art/music
The equipment is still at the experimental stage.
experimental conditions/data/evidence
This theory can be confirmed experimentally.
The new drug is being used experimentally on some patients.
He moved his shoulder experimentally to see if it still hurt.
experimentation with new teaching methods
Many people object to experimentation on embryos.
a computer/medical expert
an expert in child psychology
an expert on modern literature
He's an expert at getting his own way.
Don't ask me—I'm no expert!
to seek expert advice/an expert opinion
an expert driver
We need some expert help.
They are all expert in this field.
She's expert at making cheap but stylish clothes.
The roads were icy but she stopped the car expertly.
The music was expertly performed.
professional/scientific/technical, etc. expertise
We have the expertise to help you run your business.
They have considerable expertise in dealing with oil spills.
He had a chance to confess and expiate his guilt.
Check the expiration date on your passport.
The expiration date on this yogurt was November 20.
When does your driving licence expire?
His term of office expires at the end of June.
an expired passport
the expiry of a fixed-term contract
The licence can be renewed on expiry.
Check the expiry date of your credit cards.
to offer/provide an explanation
I can't think of any possible explanation for his absence.
She didn't give an adequate explanation for being late.
The book opens with an explanation of why some drugs are banned.
an explanation as to why he had left early
'I had to see you,' he said, by way of explanation.
For a full explanation of how the machine works, turn to page 5.
There are explanatory notes at the back of the book.
His behaviour is only explicable in terms of (= because of) his recent illness.
He gave me very explicit directions on how to get there.
She was quite explicit about why she had left.
The reasons for the decision should be made explicit.
She made some very explicit references to my personal life.
a sexually explicit film
The report states explicitly that the system was to blame.
He didn't like the degree of sexual explicitness in the film.
Bombs were exploding all around the city.
There was a huge bang as if someone had exploded a rocket outside.
Bomb disposal experts exploded the device under controlled conditions.
Suddenly Charles exploded with rage.
The protest exploded into a riot.
'Of course there's something wrong!' Jem exploded.
We all exploded into wild laughter.
After ten minutes the game exploded into life.
Thunder exploded overhead.
the exploding world population
At last, a women's magazine to explode the myth that thin equals beautiful.
He exploited his father's name to get himself a job.
She realized that her youth and inexperience were being exploited.
What is being done to stop employers from exploiting young people?
She fully exploits the humour of her role in the play.
No minerals have yet been exploited in Antarctica.
countries exploiting the rainforests for hardwood
the daring exploits of Roman heroes
the exploitation of children
commercial exploitation of the mineral resources in Antarctica
exploitation of the situation for his own purposes
the exploration of space
oil exploration (= searching for oil in the ground)
the book's explorations of the human mind
exploratory surgery
exploratory drilling for oil
The city is best explored on foot.
They explored the land to the south of the Murray River.
As soon as we arrived on the island we were eager to explore.
companies exploring for (= searching for) oil
These ideas will be explored in more detail in chapter 7.
She explored the sand with her toes.
a bomb/nuclear/gas explosion
There were two loud explosions and then the building burst into flames.
Bomb Squad officers carried out a controlled explosion of the device.
300 people were injured in the explosion.
a population explosion
an explosion of interest in learning Japanese
an explosive device (= a bomb)
an explosive mixture of chemicals
a potentially explosive situation
an explosive temper
the explosive growth of the export market
plastic explosives
The bomb was packed with several pounds of high explosive.
She was a leading exponent of free trade during her political career
the most famous exponent of the art of mime
2 4 is an exponential expression.
an exponential curve/function
exponential growth/increase
to increase exponentially
The islands export sugar and fruit.
90% of the engines are exported to Europe.
American pop music has been exported around the world.
a ban on the export of live cattle
Then the fruit is packaged for export.
export earnings
an export licence
the country's major exports
a fall in the value of exports
the world's largest/major/leading exporter of cars
The country is now a net exporter of fuel (= it exports more than it imports).
He smiled suddenly, exposing a set of amazingly white teeth.
Miles of sand are exposed at low tide.
My job as a journalist is to expose the truth.
He did not want to expose his fears and insecurity to anyone.
She was exposed as a liar and a fraud.
He threatened to expose the racism that existed within the police force.
to expose yourself to ridicule
Do not expose babies to strong sunlight.
We want to expose the kids to as much art and culture as possible.
She was left feeling exposed and vulnerable.
a clear and detailed exposition of their legal position
The film suffers from too much expository dialogue.
prolonged exposure to harmful radiation
(finance 金融) the company's exposure on the foreign exchange markets (= to the risk of making financial losses)
his exposure as a liar and a fraud
the exposure of illegal currency deals
Her new movie has had a lot of exposure in the media.
Two climbers were brought in suffering from exposure.
There are three exposures left on this roll of film.
I used a long exposure for this one.
He expounded his views on the subject to me at great length.
We listened as she expounded on the government's new policies.
Teachers have expressed concern about the changes.
His views have been expressed in numerous speeches.
to express fears/doubts/reservations
to express interest/regret/surprise
Words cannot express how pleased I am.
Teenagers often have difficulty expressing themselves.
Perhaps I have not expressed myself very well.
She expresses herself most fully in her paintings.
(formal) They expressed themselves delighted.
Their pleasure expressed itself in a burst of applause.
The figures are expressed as percentages.
Educational expenditure is often expressed in terms of the amount spent per student.
Coconut milk is expressed from grated coconuts.
As soon as I receive payment I will express the book to you.
an express bus/coach/train
express delivery services
express mail
an air express company
It was his express wish that you should have his gold watch after he died.
I came here with the express purpose of speaking with the manager.
I'd like to send this express, please.
the 8.27 express to Edinburgh
the Trans-Siberian Express
Customers with ten items or less can use the express lane.
Freedom of expression (= freedom to say what you think) is a basic human right.
(formal) The poet's anger finds expression in (= is shown in) the last verse of the poem.
Only in his dreams does he give expression to his fears.
an expression of support
Expressions of sympathy flooded in from all over the country.
There was a worried expression on her face.
an expression of amazement/disbelief/horror
His expression changed from surprise to one of amusement.
The expression in her eyes told me something was wrong.
facial expressions
an old-fashioned expression
(informal) He's a pain in the butt, if you'll pardon the expression.
Do not write more than 200 words.
He uses a lot of long words.
technical/legal/scientific terms
'Old man' is a slang term for 'father'. *
Who coined the phrase 'desktop publishing'?
He tends to use a lot of slang expressions that I've never heard before.
'Let the cat out of the bag' is an idiom meaning to tell a secret by mistake. *
Try to put a little more expression into it!
an expressionless face/tone/voice
She has wonderfully expressive eyes.
the expressive power of his music
Every word and gesture is expressive of the artist's sincerity.
She was expressly forbidden to touch my papers.
The rule was introduced expressly for this purpose.
These events led to the expulsion of senior diplomats from the country.
The headteacher threatened the three girls with expulsion.
The club faces expulsion from the football league.
Details of his criminal activities were expunged from the file.
What happened just before the accident was expunged from his memory.
exquisite craftsmanship
exquisite pain/pleasure
The room was decorated in exquisite taste.
an exquisite sense of timing
The house has extensive grounds.
The fire caused extensive damage.
She suffered extensive injuries in the accident.
Extensive repair work is being carried out.
an extensive range of wines
Extensive research has been done into this disease.
His knowledge of music is extensive.
a spice used extensively in Eastern cooking
She has travelled extensively.
Ext. 4299
extant remains of the ancient wall
to extend a fence/road/house
There are plans to extend the no-smoking area.
to extend a deadline/visa
The show has been extended for another six weeks.
Careful maintenance can extend the life of your car.
The company plans to extend its operations into Europe.
The school is extending the range of subjects taught.
The offer does not extend to employees' partners.
His willingness to help did not extend beyond making a few phone calls.
Our land extends as far as the river.
His writing career extended over a period of 40 years.
to extend a rope between two posts
He extended his hand to (= offered to shake hands with) the new employee.
(figurative) to extend the hand of friendship to (= try to have good relations with) another country
I'm sure you will join me in extending a very warm welcome to our visitors.
to extend hospitality to overseas students
The bank refused to extend credit to them (= to lend them money).
to extend sb an invitation
Jim didn't really have to extend himself in the exam.
Hospitals were already fully extended because of the epidemic.
an extendable ladder
The visa is for 14 days, extendable to one month.
an extended lunch hour
the extension of new technology into developing countries
a gradual extension of the powers of central government
The bank plans various extensions to its credit facilities.
a planned two-storey extension to the hospital
He's been granted an extension of the contract for another year.
a visa extension
(BrE) The pub had an extension (= was allowed to stay open longer) on Christmas Eve.
We have an extension in the bedroom.
What's your extension number?
Can I have extension 4332 please?
The extension of the subway will take several months.
extensions to the original railway track
hair extensions (= pieces of artificial hair that are added to your hair to make it longer)
La Salle Extension University
extension courses
It is difficult to assess the full extent of the damage.
She was exaggerating the true extent of the problem.
I was amazed at the extent of his knowledge.
You can't see the full extent of the beach from here.
To a certain extent, we are all responsible for this tragic situation.
He had changed to such an extent (= so much) that I no longer recognized him.
To some extent what she argues is true.
The pollution of the forest has seriously affected plant life and, to a lesser extent, wildlife.
To what extent is this true of all schools?
The book discusses the extent to which (= how much) family life has changed over the past 50 years.
There were extenuating circumstances and the defendant did not receive a prison sentence.
The exterior of the house needs painting.
Beneath his confident exterior, he was desperately nervous.
exterior walls/surfaces
The filming of the exterior scenes was done on the moors.
Pollution is a negative externality that imposes a cost—reduced happiness—on the victims.
man's externality to an indifferent natural world
an extinct species
to become extinct
Servants are now almost extinct in modern society.
Firefighters tried to extinguish the flames.
All lights had been extinguished.
News of the bombing extinguished all hope of peace.
a tribe threatened with extinction/in danger of extinction
The mountain gorilla is on the verge of extinction.
We know of several mass extinctions in the earth's history.
Doctors often extol the virtues of eating less fat.
She was extolled as a genius.
The gang extorted money from over 30 local businesses.
He was arrested and charged with extortion.
They are offering loans at extortionate rates of interest.
extortionately priced
Breakfast is provided at no extra charge.
The conference is going to be a lot of extra work.
an extra pint of milk
The government has promised an extra £1 billion for health care.
Take extra care on the roads this evening.
The monthly fee is fixed and there are no hidden extras (= unexpected costs).
(BrE) Metallic paint is an optional extra (= a thing you can choose to have or not, but must pay more for if you have it).
to charge/pay/cost extra
I need to earn a bit extra this month.
The rate for a room is £60, but breakfast is extra.
You need to be extra careful not to make any mistakes.
an extra large T-shirt
She tried extra hard.
They won by a single goal after extra time.
extra virgin olive oil
extramarital sex
extraterrestrial beings
extra-thin
extra-special
She's involved in many extra-curricular activities.
The following extract is taken from her new novel.
yeast extract
face cream containing natural plant extracts
(NAmE) vanilla extract
a machine that extracts excess moisture from the air
to extract essential oils from plants
Journalists managed to extract all kinds of information about her private life.
This article is extracted from his new book.
The dentist may decide that the wisdom teeth need to be extracted.
He rifled through his briefcase and extracted a file.
They are unlikely to extract much benefit from the trip.
oil/mineral/coal, etc. extraction
the extraction of salt from the sea
an American of Hungarian extraction
extractive industries
a juice extractor
The British government attempted to extradite the suspects from Belgium.
the extradition of terrorist suspects
an extradition treaty
to start extradition proceedings
an extramarital affair
extramural education/studies/departments
The hospital provides extramural care to patients who do not need to be admitted.
We do not want any extraneous information on the page.
We shall ignore factors extraneous to the problem.
Houdini, escape artist extraordinaire
It's extraordinary that he managed to sleep through the party.
What an extraordinary thing to say!
an extraordinary achievement
She was a truly extraordinary woman.
They went to extraordinary lengths to explain their behaviour.
An extraordinary meeting was held to discuss the problem.
an envoy extraordinary
He behaves extraordinarily for someone in his position.
extraordinarily difficult
She did extraordinarily well.
The figures were obtained by extrapolating from past trends.
We have extrapolated these results from research done in other countries.
Their age can be determined by extrapolation from their growth rate.
extraterrestrial beings/life
Going to the theatre is our only extravagance.
the extravagance of Strauss's music
I felt very extravagant spending £100 on a dress.
She's got very extravagant tastes.
Residents were warned not to be extravagant with water, in view of the low rainfall this year.
an extravagant present
the extravagant claims/promises of politicians
extravagantly expensive
extravagantly high hopes
We are working under extreme pressure at the moment.
people living in extreme poverty
The heat in the desert was extreme.
Children will be removed from their parents only in extreme circumstances.
Don't go doing anything extreme like leaving the country.
It was the most extreme example of cruelty to animals I had ever seen.
extreme weather conditions
extreme left-wing/right-wing views
Kerry is in the extreme west of Ireland.
She sat on the extreme edge of her seat.
extremes of love and hate
He used to be very shy, but now he's gone to the opposite extreme (= changed from one extreme kind of behaviour to another).
extremes of cold, wind or rain
It's embarrassing the extremes he'll go to in order to impress his boss.
Taken to extremes, this kind of behaviour can be dangerous.
The journey would be dangerous in the extreme.
He was given extreme unction.
extremely important/useful/complicated
She found it extremely difficult to get a job.
political extremism
left-wing/right-wing/political/religious extremists
extremist attacks/groups/policies
The lake is situated at the eastern extremity of the mountain range.
the extremities/extremity of pain
He had managed to extricate himself from most of his official duties.
They managed to extricate the pilot from the tangled control panel.
extrinsic factors
Lava is extruded from the volcano.
She exuded confidence.
The plant exudes a sticky fluid.
An awful smell exuded from the creature's body.
He leaned back, exulting at the success of his plan.
'We won!' she exulted.
The suspect has dark hair and green eyes.
to close/open your eyes
to drop/lower your eyes (= to look down)
There were tears in his eyes.
I have something in my eye.
to make/avoid eye contact with sb (= to look/avoid looking at them at the same time as they look at you)
All eyes were on him (= everyone was looking at him) as he walked on to the stage.
a blue-eyed blonde
a one-eyed monster
A surgeon needs a good eye and a steady hand.
He looked at the design with the eye of an engineer.
She viewed the findings with a critical eye.
To my eye, the windows seem out of proportion.
It fastens with a hook and eye.
I'll lend you the letters but they're for your eyes only.
I've never had much of an eye for fashion.
She has an eye for a bargain.
She's bound to notice that chipped glass. The woman has eyes like a hawk!
During his talk, most of the delegates had one eye on the clock.
He's got his eye on the new girl in your class.
She can do no wrong in her father's eyes.
We've asked the neighbours to keep an eye on the house for us while we are away.
Police have asked residents to keep an eye out for anything suspicious.
We kept our eyes peeled for any signs of life.
Can you look me in the eye and tell me you're not lying?
I'll never be able to look her in the face again!
He's definitely giving you the eye!
'It's an antique.' 'An antique, my eye!'
The appointment of a woman was one in the eye for male domination.
He's only ever had eyes for his wife.
Try looking at it through her eyes for a change.
The children played under the watchful eye of their father.
What does it matter if I use his flat while he's away? What the eye doesn't see…!
He bought the warehouse with an eye to converting it into a hotel.
I went into this with my eyes open so I guess I only have myself to blame.
She was afraid to meet my eye.
Their eyes met across the crowded room.
She met his gaze without flinching.
A terrible sight met their eyes.
He pictured the scene in his mind's eye.
The planet should be visible with/to the naked eye.
Travelling really opens your eyes to other cultures.
She doesn't want her children growing up in the public eye.
to eye sb suspiciously
He couldn't help eyeing the cakes hungrily.
They eyed us with alarm.
Computer screens should be at eye level.
an eye-level grill
I'd give my eye teeth to own a car like that.
an eye-catching advertisement
Travelling around India was a real eye-opener for me.
The special effects in the film were truly eye-popping.
There's been a lot of eye-rolling in the office about the latest announcements.
There were a few eye-rolling moments during the presentation.
eye-watering fare increases
eye-wateringly high interest rates
The protesters and police stood eyeball to eyeball.
an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation
Eyebrows were raised when he arrived without his wife.
false eyelashes
She just flutters her eyelashes and the men come running!
to have good/bad/poor eyesight
an eyesight test
That old factory is a real eyesore!
an eyewitness account of the suffering of the refugees
'Fox' begins with (an) F/'F'.
He got (an) F/'F' in/for Chemistry.
Water freezes at 32°F.
FRCM (= Fellow of the Royal College of Music)
He was shocked at how often she used the F-word.
F2F communication
Aesop's Fables
a land rich in fable
a fabled monster
For the first week he never actually saw the fabled Jack.
furnishing fabrics
a trend which threatens the very fabric of society
The evidence was totally fabricated.
Her story was a complete fabrication from start to finish.
a fabulous performance
Jana is a fabulous cook.
fabulous wealth/riches/beauty
fabulous beasts
fabulously wealthy/rich
She managed to maintain a facade of indifference.
Squalor and poverty lay behind the city's glittering facade.
a pretty/round/freckled face
He buried his face in his hands.
You should have seen the look on her face when I told her!
The expression on his face never changed.
a sad/happy/smiling face
Her face lit up (= showed happiness) when she spoke of the past.
His face fell (= showed disappointment, sadness, etc.) when he read the headlines.
Sue's face was a picture (= she looked very surprised, angry, etc.) as she listened to her husband's speech.
She looked up with a puzzled frown.
He gave me an icy glare.
a grimace of pain
pale-faced
grim-faced
She looked around for a familiar face.
a well-known face on our television screens
It's nice to see some new faces here this evening.
I'm fed up of seeing the same old faces every time we go out!
the north face of the mountain
The birds build their nests in the rock face.
How many faces does a cube have?
the changing face of Britain
the unacceptable face of capitalism
It doesn't matter how well qualified you are, if your face doesn't fit, you don't stand a chance.
The two have never met face to face before.
She was at an early age brought face to face with the horrors of war.
She lay face down on the bed.
Place the card face up on the pile.
She showed great courage in the face of danger.
He was unable to deny the charges in the face of new evidence.
On the face of it, it seems like a great deal.
What are you pulling a face at now?
Her father had set his face against the marriage.
Are you still working for what's her face?
His next television venture fell flat on its face.
Such a proposal is flying in the face of common sense.
'I didn't know you could play the piano.' 'I'm not just a pretty face, you know!'
She was fired, but she saved face by telling everyone she'd resigned.
She stayed at home, afraid to show her face.
She turned and faced him.
Most of the rooms face the sea.
The terrace faces south.
a north-facing wall
Stand with your feet apart and your hands facing upwards.
Which direction are you facing?
the problems faced by one-parent families
The company is facing a financial crisis.
She's faced with a difficult decision.
It's not always easy to face the truth.
She had to face the fact that her life had changed forever.
Face facts —she isn't coming back.
Let's face it, we're not going to win.
I just can't face work today.
I can't face seeing them.
How can I face Tom? He'll be so disappointed.
a brick building faced with stone
The others all ran off, leaving me to face the music.
Both teams are ready to face off.
The candidates are preparing to face off on TV tonight.
She had to face up to the fact that she would never walk again.
Taken at face value, the figures look very encouraging.
You shouldn't take anything she says at face value.
a face-off between the presidential candidates
a face-saving compromise
a face-to-face conversation
I deal with customers on the phone and rarely meet them face-to-face.
He opened the door and came face-to-face with a burglar.
(figurative) She was brought face-to-face with the horrors of war.
faceless bureaucrats
faceless high-rise apartment blocks
to have a facelift
The town has recently been given a facelift.
I fell over right outside the restaurant—facepalm!
I just facepalmed when he arrived wearing that ridiculous suit.
Now let's look at another facet of the problem.
a facetious comment/remark
Stop being facetious; this is serious.
a facial expression
facial hair
Facially the two men were very different.
a facile remark/generalization
a facile victory
The new trade agreement should facilitate more rapid economic growth.
Structured teaching facilitates learning.
The teacher acts as a facilitator of learning.
sports/leisure facilities
conference facilities
shopping/banking/cooking facilities
The hotel has special facilities for welcoming disabled people.
All rooms have private facilities (= a private bathroom).
a bank account with an overdraft facility
a facility for checking spelling
the world's largest nuclear waste facility
a new health care facility
She has a facility for languages.
a facsimile edition
a manuscript reproduced in facsimile
a facsimile machine
China has always fascinated me.
It was a question that had fascinated him since he was a boy.
The private lives of movie stars never fail to fascinate.
I have to travel further/farther to work now.
Let's consider this point further.
Are there any further questions?
Water holds a fascination for most children.
The fascination of the game lies in trying to guess what your opponent is thinking.
The girls listened in fascination as the story unfolded.
the public's enduring fascination with the Royal Family
I could no longer ignore the fact that he was deeply unhappy.
Despite the fact that she was wearing a seat belt, she was thrown sharply forward.
Due to the fact that they did not read English, the prisoners were unaware of what they were signing.
She was happy apart from the fact that she could not return home.
Voluntary work was particularly important in view of the fact that women were often forced to give up paid work on marriage.
How do you account for the fact that unemployment is still rising?
The fact remains that we are still two teachers short.
The mere fact of being poor makes such children criminals in the eyes of the police.
Isn't it a fact that the firm is losing money?
(informal) I haven't spoken to anyone in English for days and that's a fact.
I know for a fact (= I am certain) that she's involved in something illegal.
The judge instructed both lawyers to stick to the facts of the case.
First, some basic facts about healthy eating!
The report is based on hard facts (= information that can be proved to be true).
If you're going to make accusations, you'd better get your facts right (= make sure your information is correct).
It's about time you learnt to face (the) facts (= accepted the truth about the situation).
The story is based on fact.
It's important to distinguish fact from fiction.
A new car would be wonderful but the fact of the matter is that we can't afford one.
I've asked to see all the facts and figures before I make a decision.
I used to live in France; in fact, not far from where you're going.
I thought the work would be difficult. In actual fact, it's very easy.
'She says I'm one of the best students she's ever taught.' 'Is that a fact?'
In point of fact, she is their adopted daughter.
a fact-finding mission/visit
rival factions within the administration
a party divided by faction and intrigue
factional conflict
Here's a pop factoid for you.
economic factors
The closure of the mine was the single most important factor in the town's decline.
the key/crucial/deciding factor
1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 12 are the factors of 12.
The real wage of the average worker has increased by a factor of over ten in the last 70 years.
a suntan lotion with a protection factor of 10
The wind-chill factor will make it seem colder.
Haemophiliacs have no factor 8 in their blood.
Remember to factor in staffing costs when you are planning the project.
5! (= factorial 5) is 120 (= 5 × 4 × 3 × 2 × 1).
a car factory
factory workers
a chocolate/cigarette/clothing factory
a nuclear power plant
a manufacturing plant
a cotton/paper/textile/woollen mill
a brickworks
a steelworks
Raw materials were carried to the works by barge.
a shipyard
a car repair workshop
an iron foundry
Jobs are at risk, not just on the factory floor (= among the workers, rather than the managers) but throughout the business.
a factual account of events
factual information
The essay contains a number of factual errors.
factually correct
the faculty of sight
She retained her mental faculties (= the ability to think and understand) until the day she died.
to be in full possession of your faculties (= be able to speak, hear, see, understand, etc.)
the faculty of understanding complex issues
He had a faculty for seeing his own mistakes.
the Faculty of Law
the Arts Faculty
the Law School faculty
a faculty meeting
faculty members
the latest/current fad
a fad for physical fitness
Rap music proved to be more than just a passing fad.
a faddy eater
The curtains had faded in the sun.
All colour had faded from the sky.
The sun had faded the curtains.
He was wearing faded blue jeans.
Her smile faded.
Hopes of reaching an agreement seem to be fading away.
The laughter faded away.
His voice faded to a whisper (= gradually became quieter).
All other issues fade into insignificance compared with the struggle for survival.
Black faded on the final bend.
In the last weeks of her life she simply faded away.
George saw the monitor black out and then a few words faded in.
Fade out the music at the end of the scene.
Stop faffing about and get on with it!
There was the usual faff of finding somewhere to park the car.
It's too much of a fag to go out.
I only caught the fag end of their conversation.
fifty degrees Fahrenheit
to give the temperature in Fahrenheit
Many diets fail because they are boring.
a failing school
I failed in my attempt to persuade her.
She failed to get into art college.
The song can't fail to be a hit (= definitely will be a hit).
He failed to keep the appointment.
She never fails to email every week.
I fail to see (= I don't understand) why you won't even give it a try.
He felt he would be failing in his duty if he did not report it.
He failed his driving test.
She was disqualified after failing a drugs test.
What will you do if you fail?
The examiners failed over half the candidates.
The brakes on my bike failed half way down the hill.
Her eyesight is failing.
His last months in office were marred by failing health.
When he lost his job, he felt he had failed his family.
She tried to be brave, but her courage failed her.
(figurative) Words fail me (= I cannot express how I feel).
The crops failed again last summer.
The rains had failed and the rivers were dry.
Several banks failed during the recession.
If all else fails, you can always sell your motorbike.
I got three passes and one fail.
The show was an epic fail.
We have to wait for the final chapter for the big reveal.
I want you here by two o'clock without fail.
He emails every week without fail.
a fail-safe device/mechanism/system
a failed writer
a failed coup
She is aware of her own failings.
The inquiry acknowledges failings in the judicial system.
Ask a friend to recommend a doctor or, failing that, ask for a list in your local library.
The success or failure of the plan depends on you.
The attempt was doomed to failure.
All my efforts ended in failure.
the problems of economic failure and increasing unemployment
She is still coming to terms with the failure of her marriage.
The whole thing was a complete failure.
He was a failure as a teacher.
the failure of the United Nations to maintain food supplies
Failure to comply with the regulations will result in prosecution.
patients suffering from heart/kidney, etc. failure
A power failure plunged everything into darkness.
The cause of the crash was given as engine failure.
I would fain do as you ask.
a faint glow/glimmer/light
a faint smell of perfume
We could hear their voices growing fainter as they walked down the road.
His breathing became faint.
There is still a faint hope that she may be cured.
They don't have the faintest chance of winning.
a faint show of resistance
a faint smile
She suddenly felt faint.
The walkers were faint from hunger.
She smiled faintly.
He looked faintly embarrassed.
I didn't have the faintest idea what you meant.
to faint from hunger
Suddenly the woman in front of me fainted.
(informal) I almost fainted (= I was very surprised) when she told me.
He fell to the ground in a dead faint.
The climb is not for the faint-hearted (= is only for people who are brave).
a fair deal/wage/price/question
The punishment was very fair.
Was it really fair to him to ask him to do all the work?
It's not fair on the students to keep changing the timetable.
It's only fair to add that they were not told about the problem until the last minute.
I think it is fair to say that they are pleased with this latest offer.
It seems only fair that they should give us something in return.
To be fair, she behaved better than we expected.
(especially BrE) 'You should really have asked me first.' 'Right, okay, fair comment.'
She has always been scrupulously fair.
demands for a fairer distribution of wealth
We have to be fair to both players.
to receive a fair trial
free and fair elections
It's not fair! He always gets more than me.
The new tax is fairer than the old system.
A fair number of people came along.
a fair-sized town
We've still got a fair bit (= quite a lot) to do.
There's a fair chance that we might win this time.
It's a fair bet that they won't turn up.
I have a fair idea of what happened.
His knowledge of French is only fair.
a fair complexion
She has long fair hair.
All her children are fair (= they all have fair hair).
a fair and breezy day
They set sail with the first fair wind.
a fair maiden
Come on, you two, fight fair!
They'll respect you as long as you play fair (= behave honestly).
We won the election fair and square.
I told him fair and square to pack his bags.
I hit the target fair and square.
She seems set fair to win the championship.
Conditions were set fair for stable economic development.
Look, I'll give you £100 for it. I can't say fairer than that.
Let's take the kids to the fair.
all the fun of the fair
the county/state fair
a world trade fair
a craft/a book/an antique fair
a horse fair
It's a fair dinkum Aussie wedding.
'Burt's just told me he's packing up in a month.' 'Fair dinkum?'
They were asking a lot for the car, but fair dinkum considering how new it is.
The younger teachers were considered fair game by most of the kids.
a player admired for his sense of fair play
The task of the organization is to ensure fair play when food is distributed to the refugees.
a fair-weather friend (= sb who stops being a friend when you are in trouble)
the Ohio State Fairgrounds
the Milan trade fairgrounds
a good/wicked fairy
a fairly easy book
a fairly typical reaction
I know him fairly well, but I wouldn't say we were really close friends.
I go jogging fairly regularly.
We'll have to leave fairly soon (= before very long).
I'm fairly certain I can do the job.
The report was fairly incomprehensible.
I think you'll find it fairly difficult (= you do not want to say that it is very difficult).
The exam was fairly difficult.
The exam was quite difficult.
The exam was rather difficult.
The exam was pretty difficult.
I feel quite tired today(= fairly tired).
I feel quite exhausted.
Your essay is ˈquite good(= fairly good—it could be better).
Your essay is quite ˈgood(= very good, especially when this is unexpected).
He has always treated me very fairly.
Her attitude could fairly be described as hostile.
The time fairly raced by.
the fairness of the judicial system
A tan emphasized the fairness of her hair.
In all fairness to him, he did try to stop her leaving.
She said her farewells and left.
a farewell party/drink, etc.
The troops were farewelled at a ceremony in Darwin.
Now tell me the truth: I don't want any more of your fairy stories.
a fairy-tale castle on an island
a fairy-tale wedding in the cathedral
The toyshop is a fairyland for young children.
I have great faith in you—I know you'll do well.
We've lost faith in the government's promises.
Her friend's kindness has restored her faith in human nature.
He has blind faith (= unreasonable trust) in doctors' ability to find a cure.
to lose your faith
Faith is stronger than reason.
the Christian faith
The children are learning to understand people of different faiths.
They handed over the weapons as a gesture of good faith.
We printed the report in good faith but have now learnt that it was incorrect.
The company is pinning its hopes on the new project.
He called for new faith schools to be created.
a faithful servant/friend/dog
She was rewarded for her 40 years' faithful service with the company.
I have been a faithful reader of your newspaper for many years.
He remained faithful to the ideals of the party.
The president will keep the support of the party faithful.
a faithful copy/account/description
His translation manages to be faithful to the spirit of the original.
my faithful old car
faithfulness to tradition
She had doubts about his faithfulness.
to follow instructions faithfully
The events were faithfully recorded in her diary.
He had supported the local team faithfully for 30 years.
She promised faithfully not to tell anyone my secret.
a faithless friend
fake designer clothing
a fake American accent
a jacket in fake fur
Don't go out in the sun—get a fake tan from a bottle.
All the paintings proved to be fakes.
She faked her mother's signature on the document.
He arranged the accident in order to fake his own death.
She's not really sick—she's just faking it.
He faked a yawn.
September had come and the leaves were starting to fall.
They were injured by falling rocks.
Several of the books had fallen onto the floor.
One of the kids fell into the river.
The handle had fallen off the drawer.
He fell 20 metres onto the rocks below.
The rain was falling steadily.
She slipped on the ice and fell.
I fell over and cut my knee.
The house looked as if it was about to fall down.
Her hair fell over her shoulders in a mass of curls.
The land falls away sharply towards the river.
Their profits have fallen by 30 per cent.
Prices continued to fall on the stock market today.
The temperature fell sharply in the night.
falling birth rates
Her voice fell to a whisper.
Share prices fell 30p.
The coup failed but the government fell shortly afterwards.
Troy finally fell to the Greeks.
a memorial to those who fell in the two world wars
He had fallen asleep on the sofa.
The book fell open at a page of illustrations.
The room had fallen silent.
She fell ill soon after and did not recover.
I had fallen into conversation with a man on the train.
The house had fallen into disrepair.
She knew she must not fall prey to his charm.
A sudden silence fell.
Darkness falls quickly in the tropics.
An expectant hush fell on the guests.
My birthday falls on a Monday this year.
My eye fell on (= I suddenly saw) a curious object.
Which syllable does the stress fall on?
A shadow fell across her face.
Out of over 400 staff there are just 7 that fall into this category.
This case falls outside my jurisdiction.
This falls under the heading of scientific research.
We all fell about laughing.
My car is falling apart.
Their marriage finally fell apart.
The deal fell apart when we failed to agree on a price.
His supporters fell away as his popularity declined.
The market for their products fell away to almost nothing.
All our doubts fell away.
The houses fell away as we left the city.
The enemy fell back as our troops advanced.
I have a little money in the bank to fall back on.
She fell back on her usual excuse of having no time.
She soon fell behind the leaders.
They had fallen behind on their mortgage repayments.
He's fallen behind with his school work again.
And that's where the theory falls down.
They fell for each other instantly.
I'm surprised you fell for that trick.
The sergeant ordered his men to fall in.
She fell in with my idea at once.
My talk falls naturally into three parts.
Attendance at my lectures has fallen off considerably.
They fell on him with sticks.
The children fell on the food and ate it greedily.
The full cost of the wedding fell on us.
His hair is falling out.
My spreadsheet keeps falling over.
I rushed for the door and fell over the cat in the hallway.
He was falling over himself to be nice to me.
Our plans fell through because of lack of money.
With his partner away, all the work now fell to him.
It fell to me to inform her of her son's death.
She fell to brooding about what had happened to her.
I had a bad fall and broke my arm.
She was killed in a fall from a horse.
a heavy fall of snow
a rock fall
the fall of the dice
the dark fall of her hair (= the way her hair hangs down)
The falls upstream are full of salmon.
Niagara Falls
in the fall of 2009
last fall
fall weather
a steep fall in profits
a big fall in unemployment
the fall of the Roman Empire
the rise and fall of British industry
the fall of Berlin
the TV preacher's spectacular fall from grace
He took the fall for his boss and resigned.
to fall foul of the law
The town fell into enemy hands.
We don't want this document falling into the wrong hands.
He caught her up and fell into step beside her.
The hotel fell far short of their expectations.
Our car is falling to pieces, we've had it so long.
He's worried the business will fall to pieces without him.
a recent fall-off in sales
It is a fallacy to say that the camera never lies.
He detected the fallacy of her argument.
a fallacious argument
What's our fallback if they don't come up with the money?
We need a fallback position if they won't do the job.
a fallen tree
Memory is selective and fallible.
All human beings are fallible.
human fallibility
Dave and I had a falling-out.
Farmers are now paid to let their land lie fallow.
Contemporary dance is coming onto the arts scene again after a long fallow period.
A whale is a fish. True or false?
Predictions of an early improvement in the housing market proved false.
She gave false information to the insurance company.
He used a false name to get the job.
false teeth/eyelashes
a false passport
false modesty
She flashed him a false smile of congratulation.
a false argument/assumption/belief
to give a false impression of wealth
to lull sb into a false sense of security (= make sb feel safe when they are really in danger)
They didn't want to raise any false hopes, but they believed her husband had escaped capture.
Buying a cheap computer is a false economy (= will not actually save you money).
a false lover
to be falsely accused of sth
She smiled falsely at his joke.
It may seem a strange story but it rings true to me.
The fire service was called out but it was a false alarm.
a false dawn for the economy
The English word 'sensible' and the French word 'sensible' are false friends.
One false move and the bomb might blow up.
After a number of false starts, she finally found a job she liked.
to test the truth or falsehood of her claims
the deliberate falsification of the company's records
My uncle was a Falstaffian figure.
The economy shows no signs of faltering.
Her courage never faltered.
His voice faltered as he began his speech.
She walked up to the platform without faltering.
He never faltered in his commitment to the party.
the faltering peace talks
the baby's first faltering steps
the other members of my family
Almost every family in the country owns a television.
All my family enjoy skiing.
one-parent / single-parent families
a family of four
families with young children
All our family came to Grandad's eightieth birthday party.
The support of family and friends is vital.
We've only told the immediate family (= the closest relations).
the Royal Family (= the children and close relations of the king or queen)
I always think of you as one of the family.
(informal) She's family (= she is a relation).
Some families have farmed in this area for hundreds of years.
This painting has been in our family for generations.
They have a large family.
I addressed it to Mr and Mrs Jones and family.
Do they plan to start a family (= have children)?
to bring up/raise a family
Lions belong to the cat family.
the Germanic family of languages
Heart disease runs in the family.
family life
your family background
a family business
a family show
to achieve/win instant fame
to rise/shoot to fame overnight
Andrew Lloyd Webber of 'Cats' fame (= famous for 'Cats')
The town's only claim to fame is that there was once a riot there.
She went to Hollywood in search of fame and fortune.
Las Vegas, famed for its casinos
a famed poet and musician
to look/sound/taste familiar
He's a familiar figure in the neighbourhood.
Something about her voice was vaguely familiar.
The smell is very familiar to everyone who lives near a bakery.
Violent attacks are becoming all too familiar (= sadly familiar).
an area with which I had been familiar since childhood
Are you familiar with the computer software they use?
You seem to be on very familiar terms with your tutor.
After a few drinks her boss started getting too familiar for her liking.
familial left-handedness
You'll need time to familiarize yourself with our procedures.
His familiarity with the language helped him enjoy his stay.
When she saw the house, she had a feeling of familiarity.
She addressed me with an easy familiarity that made me feel at home.
John Hunt, familiarly known to his friends as Jack
He touched her cheek familiarly.
The elephant's nose or, more familiarly, trunk, is the most versatile organ in the animal kingdom.
I see he's become a family man.
a devoted family man
How far back can you trace your family tree?
a severe famine
disasters such as floods and famine
the threat of widespread famine in the area
to raise money for famine relief
When's lunch? I'm famished!
a famous artist/hotel
the most famous lake in Italy
One day, I'll be rich and famous.
He became internationally famous for his novels.
She was more famous as a writer than as a singer.
'Everything's under control.' 'Famous last words!'
Some newspapers, most famously the New York Times, refused to print the word Ms.
movie fans
crowds of football fans
a big fan of Rihanna
fan mail (= letters from fans to the person they admire)
to switch on the electric fan
a fan heater
When the shit hits the fan, I don't want to be here.
He fanned himself with a newspaper to cool down.
Fanned by a westerly wind, the fire spread rapidly through the city.
His reluctance to answer her questions simply fanned her curiosity.
His writings fanned the flames of racism.
The police fanned out to surround the house.
The bird fanned out its tail feathers.
a fitness/crossword, etc. fanatic
religious fanatics
a fanatical supporter
fanatical anti-royalists
a fanatical interest in football
She's fanatical about healthy eating.
fanatically devoted to exercise
a Nintendo fanboy
Linux fanboys
Fancy a drink?
She didn't fancy (= did not like) the idea of going home in the dark.
Do you fancy going out this evening?
I think she fancies me.
He started to chat to me and I could tell that he really fancied himself.
She fancies herself (as) a serious actress.
Fancy! She's never been in a plane before.
Fancy meeting you here!
'She remembered my name after all those years.' ' Fancy that! '
Which horse do you fancy in the next race?
He's hoping to get the job but I don't fancy his chances.
She fancied (that) she could hear footsteps.
night-time fancies that disappear in the morning
a child's wild flights of fancy
She said she wanted a dog but it was only a passing fancy.
See if any of these tickle your fancy.
a kitchen full of fancy gadgets
They added a lot of fancy footwork to the dance.
He's always using fancy legal words.
fancy goods (= things sold as gifts or for decoration)
fancy restaurants with fancy prices
Don't come back with any fancy ideas.
a pigeon fancier
a fanciful gold border
guests in fancy dress
a fancy-dress party
I was still footloose and fancy-free (= free to enjoy myself) in those days.
The product was launched amid much fanfare worldwide.
his childhood fantasies about becoming a famous football player
Her books are usually escapist fantasies.
a work of fantasy
Stop living in a fantasy world.
He sometimes fantasized about winning the gold medal.
a fantastic beach in Australia
a fantastic achievement
The weather was absolutely fantastic.
You've got the job? Fantastic!
The response to our appeal was fantastic.
The car costs a fantastic amount of money.
fantastic dreams of forests and jungles
a fantastic scheme/project
fantastically successful
a fantastically shaped piece of stone
We didn't go far.
Have you come far?
It's not far to the beach.
There's not far to go now.
The restaurant is not far from here.
countries as far apart as Japan and Brazil
He looked down at the traffic far below.
Far away in the distance, a train whistled.
The farther north they went, the colder it became.
a concert of music from near and far
We went a long way.
The restaurant is a long way from here.
How far is it to your house from here?
How much further is it?
We'll go by train as far as London, and then take a bus.
We didn't go as far as the others.
I'm not sure I can walk so far.
The band made their first record as far back as 1990.
Let's try to plan further ahead.
We worked far into the night.
That's a far better idea.
There are far more opportunities for young people than there used to be.
It had been a success far beyond their expectations.
He's fallen far behind in his work.
She always gives us far too much homework.
How far can we trust him?
His parents supported him as far as they could.
Plan your route in advance, using main roads as far as possible.
How far have you got with that report?
I read as far as the third chapter.
They searched far and wide for the missing child.
Far be it from me to interfere in your affairs but I would like to give you just one piece of advice.
It is far from clear (= it is not clear) what he intends to do.
Computers, far from destroying jobs, can create employment.
'You're not angry then?' 'Far from it. I've never laughed so much in my life.'
She is very talented and should go far.
I wouldn't go as far as to say that he's a liar (= but I think he may be slightly dishonest).
He's always been quite crude, but this time he's gone too far.
I never thought she'd go this far.
That's the truth, in so far as I know it.
Your guess wasn't far out at all.
Five pounds doesn't go very far these days.
Four bottles of wine won't go far among twenty people.
What do you think of the show so far?
Detectives are so far at a loss to explain the reason for his death.
I trust him only so far.
I saw her on the far side of the road.
at the far end of the room
They made for an empty table in the far corner.
the far north of Scotland
Who is that on the far left of the photograph?
She is on the far right of the party (= holds extreme right-wing political views).
a far country
She was none too pleased at having to do it all again.
She was too far gone to understand anything we said to her.
The whole story sounds very far-fetched.
expeditions to the far-flung corners of the world
a newsletter that helps to keep all our far-flung graduates in touch
a far-off land
memories of those far-off days
far-reaching consequences/implications
far-reaching changes/reforms
the most far-sighted of politicians
a far-sighted decision
a war in a faraway country
a bedroom farce (= a funny play about sex)
The trial was a complete farce.
It was a farcical trial.
a situation verging on the farcical
bus/taxi fares
train/rail fares
Children travel (at) half fare.
When do they start paying full fare?
The taxi driver picked up a fare at the station.
The restaurant provides good traditional fare.
The party fared very badly in the last election.
a 200-hectare farm
a farm worker/labourer
farm buildings/machinery
to live/work on a farm
a trout/mink/pig farm
The family has farmed in Kent for over two hundred years.
They farm dairy cattle.
He farmed 200 acres of prime arable land.
organically farmed produce
The company farms out a lot of work to freelancers.
to take up farming
sheep/fish, etc. farming
organic farming
modern farming methods
a farming community
250 acres of farmland
the prosperous farmlands of Picardy
farther north/south
farther along the road
I can't go any farther.
As a family we grew farther and farther apart.
We watched their ship moving gradually farther away.
How much farther is it?
They hadn't got any farther with the work (= they had made no progress).
the farther shore of the lake
the house farthest away from the road
a competition to see who could throw (the) farthest
the farthest point of the journey
the part of the garden farthest from the house
The children watched, fascinated, as the picture began to appear.
I've always been fascinated by his ideas.
They were fascinated to see that it was similar to one they had at home.
a fascinating story/subject
The results of the survey made fascinating reading.
It's fascinating to see how different people approach the problem.
I fail to see what women find so fascinating about him.
a fascist state
fascist sympathies
dressed in the latest fashion
the new season's fashions
Long skirts have come into fashion again.
Jeans are still in fashion.
Some styles never go out of fashion.
The fashion at the time was for teaching mainly the written language.
Fashions in art and literature come and go.
a fashion designer/magazine/show
the world of fashion
the fashion industry
How could they behave in such a fashion?
She was proved right, in dramatic fashion, when the whole department resigned.
She's been spending money like it's going out of fashion.
She fashioned a pot from the clay.
She fashioned the clay into a pot.
This shirt is great for anyone who wants to make a fashion statement.
fashion-conscious teenagers
We tend to be traditional rather than fashion-forward in our designs.
fashionable clothes/furniture/ideas
It's becoming fashionable to have long hair again.
Such thinking is fashionable among right-wing politicians.
a fashionable address/resort/restaurant
She lives in a very fashionable part of London.
fashionably dressed
His wife was blonde and fashionably thin.
a fast car/horse
the world's fastest runner
the fastest rate of increase for years
a fast response time
a swift decision
The government took swift action.
a speedy recovery
a fast learner
a fast road/pitch
I'm early—my watch must be fast.
That clock's ten minutes fast.
He made the boat fast.
In his latest movie, the action is fast and furious.
There are no hard and fast rules about this.
Don't drive so fast!
How fast were you going?
I can't go any faster.
The water was rising fast.
Her heart beat faster.
(formal) Night was fast approaching.
a fast-flowing stream
I quickly realized that I was on the wrong train.
My heart started to beat more quickly.
Come on! Quick! They'll see us!
My heart started to beat much quicker.
The quicker I get you away from here, the better.
How fast can a cheetah run?
Can't you drive any faster?
Children grow up so fast these days.
Britain is fast becoming a nation of fatties.
The police said that they had reacted as fast as they could.
Within a few minutes she was fast asleep (= sleeping deeply).
The boat was stuck fast (= unable to move) in the mud.
Questions were coming at them thick and fast.
Muslims fast during Ramadan.
to go on a fast
to break (= end) your fast
fast-food restaurants
He had a good job, plenty of money and he was enjoying life in the fast lane.
the fast-track route to promotion
fast-track graduates
The action then fast-forwards to Ettore as a young man.
Press fast forward to advance the tape.
the fast-forward button
Fasten your seat belts, please.
He fastened up his coat and hurried out.
The dress fastens at the back.
Fasten the gates securely so that they do not blow open.
The window wouldn't fasten.
He fastened back the shutters.
He fastened the papers together with a paper clip.
The dog fastened its teeth in his leg.
His hand fastened on her arm.
He fastened his gaze on her face.
The trousers have a fly fastening.
Everything was planned in fastidious detail.
He was fastidious in his preparation for the big day.
She wasn't very fastidious about personal hygiene.
a big fat man/woman
You'll get fat if you eat so much chocolate.
He grew fatter and fatter.
fat flabby legs
Does this dress make me look fat?
I'm a bit overweight.
She's a rather large woman.
Her sister is a big girl, isn't she?
the baby's chubby cheeks
a short stout man with a bald head
exercises to firm up flabby thighs
a fat volume on American history
a fat sum/profit
He gave me a nice fat cheque.
Fatness tends to run in families.
excess body fat
This ham has too much fat on it.
Cook the meat in shallow fat.
You should cut down on fats and carbohydrates.
foods which are low in fat
reduced-fat margarines
The data was all wrong—it must have been a case of fat finger!
The document was full of fat-finger mistakes.
I couldn't enter the site because I kept fat-fingering my password.
fat-free yogurt
a fatal accident/blow/illness
a potentially fatal form of cancer
If she gets ill again it could prove fatal.
a fatal error/mistake
Any delay would be fatal.
There was a fatal flaw in the plan.
It'd be fatal to try and stop them now.
fatally injured/wounded
The plan was fatally flawed from the start.
Several people were injured, but there were no fatalities.
to reduce the fatality of certain types of cancer
Different forms of cancer have different fatality rates.
A sense of fatality gripped her.
I'm a fatalist.
The fate of the three men is unknown.
She sat outside, waiting to find out her fate.
The court will decide our fate/fates.
Each of the managers suffered the same fate.
The government had abandoned the refugees to their fate.
From that moment our fate was sealed (= our future was decided).
Fate was kind to me that day.
By a strange twist of fate, Andy and I were on the same plane.
We were fated never to meet again.
He believes that everything in life is fated.
She looked back now to that fateful day in December.
Ben's a wonderful father.
You've been like a father to me.
Our new boss is a father of three (= he has three children).
He was a wonderful father to both his natural and adopted children.
(old-fashioned) Father, I cannot lie to you.
the land of our fathers
Henry Moore is considered to be the father of modern British sculpture.
Father, forgive us.
God the Father
Father Dominic
He claims to have fathered over 20 children.
fatherless children/families
fatherly advice
He keeps a fatherly eye on his players.
It is hard to fathom the pain felt at the death of a child.
He couldn't fathom out what the man could possibly mean.
The ship sank in 20 fathoms.
(figurative) She kept her feelings hidden fathoms deep.
physical and mental fatigue
Driver fatigue was to blame for the accident.
I was dropping with fatigue and could not keep my eyes open.
battle fatigue
The wing of the plane showed signs of metal fatigue.
The piglets are taken from the sow to be fattened for market.
She's very thin after her illness—but we'll soon fatten her up.
fattening cakes
fatty foods
fatty tissue
Britain is fast becoming a nation of fatties.
a fatuous comment/grin
the hot/cold faucet
to turn a faucet on/off
Why should I say sorry when it's not my fault?
It's nobody's fault.
It was his fault that we were late.
It's your own fault for being careless.
Many people live in poverty through no fault of their own.
I think the owners are at fault (= responsible) for not warning us.
He's proud of his children and blind to their faults.
I love her for all her faults (= in spite of them).
The book's virtues far outweigh its faults.
The system, for all its faults, is the best available at the moment.
a major fault in the design
a structural fault
He has served a number of double faults in this set.
the San Andreas fault
a fault line
She is generous to a fault.
Her colleagues could not fault her dedication to the job.
He had always been polite—she couldn't fault him on that.
Ask for a refund if the goods are faulty.
faulty workmanship
an accident caused by a faulty signal
faulty reasoning
faultless English
the local flora and fauna (= plants and animals)
(specialist) land and marine faunas
We were obliged, faute de mieux, to drink the local beverage.
The chairs were covered in faux animal skin.
His accent was so faux.
That song is one of my faves.
her fave TV show
Could you do me a favour and pick up Sam from school today?
Can I ask a favour?
I would never ask for any favours from her.
I'm going as a favour to Ann, not because I want to.
I'll ask Steve to take it. He owes me a favour.
Thanks for helping me out. I'll return the favour (= help you because you have helped me) some time.
Do yourself a favour (= help yourself) and wear a helmet on the bike.
Would you mind if I opened the window?
Could I possibly borrow your phone?
I hate to ask, but could I please borrow your phone?(NAmE)
Do you happen to have a pair of gloves I could borrow for the evening?
Would it be all right if I left five minutes early?
Is there any chance that we could stay at your house the night before our flight?
Would it be OK to leave my bag here?
Yes, of course.
Go ahead.
That's fine.
I'd rather you didn't, if you don't mind.
I'd prefer it if you asked somebody else.
If there's someone else you can ask, I'd be grateful.
The suggestion to close the road has found favour with (= been supported by) local people.
The programme has lost favour with viewers recently.
an athlete who fell from favour after a drugs scandal
(formal) The government looks with favour upon (= approves of) the report's recommendations.
She's not in favour with (= supported or liked by) the media just now.
It seems Tim is back in favour with the boss (= the boss likes him again).
As an examiner, she showed no favour to any candidate.
demands for sexual favours
He argued in favour of a strike.
There were 247 votes in favour (of the motion) and 152 against.
I'm all in favour of (= completely support) equal pay for equal work.
Most of the 'don't knows' in the opinion polls came down in favour of (= eventually chose to support) the Democrats.
He abandoned teaching in favour of a career as a musician.
The exchange rate is in our favour at the moment.
She was willing to bend the rules in Mary's favour.
Many countries favour a presidential system of government.
The treaty seems to favour the US.
The warm climate favours many types of tropical plants.
She definitely favours her father.
She made a favourable impression on his parents.
The biography shows him in a favourable light.
favourable comments
The terms of the agreement are favourable to both sides.
favourable economic conditions
They offered me a loan on very favourable terms.
He speaks very favourably of your work.
These figures compare favourably with last year's.
I was very favourably impressed with her work.
a member of the President's favoured circle of advisers
the favoured candidate
Their house is in a very favoured position near the park.
It's one of my favourite movies.
Who is your favourite writer?
January is my least favourite month.
These biscuits are great favourites with the children.
This song is a particular favourite of mine.
The band played all my old favourites.
The programme has become a firm favourite with young people.
She loved all her grandchildren but Ann was her favourite.
Add the website as a favourite.
The favourite came third.
Her horse is the hot favourite for the race.
AC Milan, the hot favourites to win the Champions League
She's the favourite for the job.
She's the favourite to succeed him as leader.
The students accused the teacher of favouritism.
a fawn coat
Do you have a fax?
Can you send it to me by fax?
What is your fax number?
Did you get my fax?
You can send faxes by email from your computer.
Could you fax me the latest version?
Could you fax it to me?
I faxed the list of hotels through to them.
She wasn't fazed by his comments.
He looked as if nothing could faze him.
Liverpool FC
Her eyes showed no fear.
The child was shaking with fear.
(a) fear of the dark/spiders/flying, etc.
We lived in constant fear of losing our jobs.
her fears for her son's safety
Alan spoke of his fears for the future.
the fear that he had cancer
The doctor's report confirmed our worst fears.
We spoke quietly for fear of waking the guards.
I had to run away for fear (that) he might one day kill me.
'Are you coming climbing?' 'No fear!'
All his employees fear him.
to fear death/persecution/the unknown
Don't worry, you have nothing to fear from us.
(formal) She feared to tell him the truth.
(formal) She feared going out at night.
She has been missing for three days now and police are beginning to fear the worst (= think that she is dead).
Hundreds of people are feared dead.
Women and children are feared to be among the victims.
It is feared (that) he may have been kidnapped.
She feared (that) he might be dead.
Never fear/Fear not (= Don't worry), I shall return.
They are unlikely to get here on time, I fear.
'He must be dead then?' ' I fear so.'
'She's not coming back?' ' I fear not.'
We fear for his safety.
He feared for his mother, left alone on the farm.
Parents are ever fearful for their children.
fearful of an attack
She was fearful that she would fail.
We made a fearful mess of the room.
We watched fearfully.
fearfully (= extremely) expensive
a fearless mountaineer
a feasible plan/suggestion/idea
It's just not feasible to manage the business on a part-time basis.
a feasibility study on the proposed new airport
I doubt the feasibility of the plan.
a wedding feast
the feast of Christmas
a feast day
a feast of colours
The evening was a real feast for music lovers.
The tunnel is a brilliant feat of engineering.
to perform/attempt/achieve astonishing feats
That was no mean feat (= it was difficult to do).
a peacock feather
a feather pillow (= one containing feathers)
The senator's speech ruffled a few feathers in the business world.
An interesting feature of the city is the old market.
Teamwork is a key feature of the training programme.
Which features do you look for when choosing a car?
The software has no particular distinguishing features.
geographical features
his strong handsome features
Her eyes are her most striking feature.
a special feature on education
The film features Cary Grant as a professor.
The latest model features alloy wheels and an electronic alarm.
Many of the hotels featured in the brochure offer special deals for weekend breaks.
Olive oil and garlic feature prominently in his recipes.
The countryside is flat and featureless.
a product of her febrile imagination
Her husband was a charming, but lazy and feckless man.
You look fed up. What's the matter?
People are fed up with all these traffic jams.
In the end, I just got fed up with his constant complaining.
I wish he'd get a job. I'm fed up with it (= with the situation).
I'm fed up with waiting for her.
a federal republic
a federal law
state and federal income taxes
federally funded health care
European federalism
a federalist future in Europe
the Russian Federation
the International Tennis Federation
Many MPs are against federation in Europe.
legal fees
Does the bank charge a fee for setting up the account?
fee-paying schools (= that you have to pay to go to)
membership fees
There is no entrance fee to the gallery.
a feeble old man
The heartbeat was feeble and irregular.
a feeble argument/excuse/joke
a feeble attempt to explain
Don't be so feeble! Tell her you don't want to go.
Have you fed the cat yet?
The baby can't feed itself yet (= can't put food into its own mouth).
The cattle are fed (on) barley.
The barley is fed to the cattle.
Slugs and snails feed at night.
They have a large family to feed.
There's enough here to feed an army.
Feed the plants once a week.
We are constantly fed gossip and speculation by the media.
Gossip and speculation are constantly fed to us by the media.
The electricity line is fed with power through an underground cable.
Power is fed into the electricity line through an underground cable.
He fed the meter with coins.
He fed coins into the meter.
The fabric is fed through the machine.
For drug addicts, the need to feed the addiction takes priority over everything else.
What the audience tells me feeds back into my work.
Test results will be fed back to the schools.
The report's findings will feed into company policy.
Butterflies feed on the flowers of garden plants.
Racism feeds on fear.
It will take time for the higher rates to feed through to investors.
her morning feed
winter feed for the horses
the cold feed to the water cylinder
The printer has an automatic paper feed.
They needed a bath and a good feed.
network feed
an RSS feed
I'd appreciate some feedback on my work.
The teacher will give you feedback on the test.
We need both positive and negative feedback from our customers.
plankton feeders
a feeder road to the motorway/freeway
breast/bottle feeding
I made breakfast for all my son's friends—it was like the Feeding of the Five Thousand.
The heat made him feel faint.
She sounded more confident than she felt.
I was feeling guilty.
You'll feel better after a good night's sleep.
She felt betrayed.
I feel sorry for him.
How are you feeling today?
I know exactly how you feel (= I feel sympathy for you).
Luckily I was feeling in a good mood.
He seemed to feel no remorse at all.
Standing there on stage I felt a complete idiot.
I felt like a complete idiot.
I could feel the warm sun on my back.
She could not feel her legs.
He felt a hand on his shoulder.
He felt a hand touching his shoulder.
She could feel herself blushing.
I felt something crawl up my arm.
We felt the ground give way under our feet.
Can you feel the tension in this room?
It felt strange to be back in my old school.
My mouth felt completely dry.
The interview only took ten minutes, but it felt like hours.
It feels like rain (= seems likely to rain).
Her head felt as if it would burst.
It felt as though he had run a marathon.
How does it feel to be alone all day?
He felt like he'd run a marathon.
The water feels warm.
Its skin feels really smooth.
This wallet feels like leather.
Can you feel the bump on my head?
Try to tell what this is just by feeling it.
Feel how rough this is.
I felt (that) I had to apologize.
She felt it to be her duty to tell the police.
She felt it her duty to tell the police.
I felt it advisable to do nothing.
This is something I feel strongly about.
This decision is, I feel, a huge mistake.
He feels the cold a lot.
Cathy was really feeling the heat.
She felt her mother's death very deeply.
The effects of the recession are being felt everywhere.
We all felt the force of her arguments.
He felt in his pockets for some money.
I had to feel about in the dark for the light switch.
Feel free to ask questions if you don't understand.
'Can I use your phone?' 'Feel free.'
It makes me feel good to know my work is appreciated.
I feel like a drink.
We all felt like celebrating.
We'll go for a walk if you feel like it.
Lots of people who have lost their jobs are starting to feel the pinch.
Mum! I feel sick.
She was new in the job, still feeling her way.
I really felt for her when her husband died.
I do feel for you, honestly.
Do we have to go to the party? I really don't feel up to it.
After the accident she didn't feel up to driving.
You can tell it's silk by the feel.
She loved the feel of the sun on her skin.
I had a feel of the material.
It's a big city but it has the feel of a small town.
The room has a comfortable feel to it.
I haven't got the feel of the brakes in this car yet.
She has a real feel for languages.
Stop feeling sorry for yourself and think about other people for a change.
She felt strange sitting at her father's desk.
It was terribly hot and I started to feel strange.
a feel-good movie
a felt hat
a feeling of hunger/excitement/sadness, etc.
guilty feelings
I've got a tight feeling in my stomach.
(informal) 'I really resent the way he treated me.' ' I know the feeling (= I know how you feel).'
'I'm going to miss you.' ' The feeling's mutual (= I feel exactly the same).'
He suddenly had the feeling of being followed.
I got the feeling that he didn't like me much.
I had a nasty feeling that we were lost.
The general feeling of the meeting was against the decision.
I don't have any strong feelings about it one way or the other.
She had mixed feelings about giving up her job.
My own feeling is that we should buy the cheaper one.
Public feeling is being ignored by the government.
He hates talking about his feelings.
I didn't mean to hurt your feelings (= offend you).
She spoke with feeling about the plight of the homeless.
Feelings are running high (= people are very angry or excited).
He played the piano with great feeling.
She has a wonderful feeling for colour.
You have no feeling for the sufferings of others.
I still have feelings for her (= feel attracted to her in a romantic way).
I've lost all feeling in my legs.
They have managed to recreate the feeling of the original theatre.
It looks like I'm the winner again. No hard feelings, Dave, eh?
He spoke feelingly about his dead father.
He landed feet first.
You'll have to carry me out feet first!
He survived the massacre by feigning death.
'Who cares?' said Alex, feigning indifference.
a fierce dog
Two fierce eyes glared at them.
He suddenly looked fierce.
She spoke in a fierce whisper.
fierce loyalty
the scene of fierce fighting
He launched a fierce attack on the Democrats.
Competition from abroad became fiercer in the 1990s.
fierce wind
the fierce heat of the flames
'Let go of me,' she said fiercely.
fiercely competitive
The aircraft was burning fiercely.
I sure do miss you something fierce!
a felicitous turn of phrase
She walks with feline grace.
He felled his opponent with a single blow.
Have you met her new fella?
He's a nice old fellow.
She has a very good reputation among her fellows.
Many caged birds live longer than their fellows in the wild.
a fellow of New College, Oxford
a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons
a graduate fellow
a teaching fellow
fellow members/citizens/workers
my fellow passengers on the train
to be elected to fellowship of the British Academy
a charge of felony
a female student/employee/artist
Two of the candidates must be female.
a female cat
female characteristics
the female role
a female plug
More females than males are employed in the factory.
That dress makes you look very feminine.
He had delicate, almost feminine, features.
the traditional feminine role
Some people prefer not to use the feminine form 'actress' and use the word 'actor' for both sexes.
The French word for 'table' is feminine.
Offices became increasingly feminized during the 1960s.
feminist demands/ideas/theories
the feminist movement
a femtosecond
He tends to sit on the fence at meetings.
His property is fenced with barbed wire.
She felt fenced in by domestic routine.
The factory is surrounded by electric fencing.
His parents agreed to pay the rent for his apartment but otherwise left him to fend for himself.
The police officer fended off the blows with his riot shield.
She managed to fend off questions about new tax increases.
feral cats
Fruit juices ferment if they are kept for too long.
(figurative) A blend of emotions fermented inside her.
Red wine is fermented at a higher temperature than white.
The country is in ferment.
a ferocious beast/attack/storm
a man driven by ferocious determination
ferocious opposition to the plan
The police were shocked by the ferocity of the attack.
She opened the drawer and ferreted around for her keys.
the cross-channel ferry service
We caught the ferry at Ostend.
the Dover-Calais ferry crossing
the Staten Island ferry
He offered to ferry us across the river in his boat.
The children need to be ferried to and from school.
a fertile region
The treatment has been tested on healthy fertile women under the age of 35.
a fertile partnership
The region at the time was fertile ground for revolutionary movements (= there were the necessary conditions for them to develop easily).
the product of a fertile imagination
Flowers are often fertilized by bees as they gather nectar.
a fertilized egg
Immediately after fertilization, the cells of the egg divide.
the fertilization of soil with artificial chemicals
the fertility of the soil/land
a god of fertility
fertility treatment (= medical help given to a person to help them have a baby)
artificial/chemical fertilizers
a fervent admirer/believer/supporter
a fervent belief/hope/desire
She kissed him with unusual fervour.
religious/patriotic fervour
festering sores/wounds
the Edinburgh festival
the Cannes film festival
a beer festival
a rock festival (= where bands perform, often outdoors and over a period of several days)
a festive occasion
The whole town is in festive mood.
the festive season/period
festive decorations
The wedding was an occasion of great festivity.
an air of festivity
fetal abnormalities
She lay curled up in a fetal position.
to fetch help/a doctor
The inhabitants have to walk a mile to fetch water.
She's gone to fetch the kids from school.
Could you fetch me my bag?
The painting is expected to fetch $10 000 at auction.
And then, a few years later, he somehow fetched up in Rome.
the school/village/church fete
a charity fete
She has a fetish about cleanliness.
He makes a fetish of his work.
to have a leather fetish
a magazine specializing in rubber fetishism
the importance of animal fetishism in the history of Egypt
a leather fetishist
They were at last freed from the fetters of ignorance.
a long-running feud between the two artists
a feud with the neighbours
a family feud (= within a family or between two families)
a feud over money
stories of bitter feuding between rival drug dealers
the feudal system
He has a high fever.
Aspirin should help reduce the fever.
She caught a fever on her travels in Africa, and died.
He waited for her arrival in a fever of impatience.
election fever
Speculation about his future had reached fever pitch.
Excitement has been at fever pitch for days.
fevered excitement/speculation
a fevered imagination/mind (= that imagines strange things)
She mopped his fevered brow.
The whole place was a scene of feverish activity.
a state of feverish excitement
feverish with longing
She was aching and feverish.
a feverish cold/dream
The team worked feverishly to the November deadline.
Her mind raced feverishly.
See pp. 96 ff.
She began to walk away from him.
Has the train from Bristol arrived?
We're open from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. every day.
He was blind from birth.
a letter from my brother
information from witnesses
the man from (= representing) the insurance company
I'm from Italy.
documents from the sixteenth century
quotations from Shakespeare
heat from the sun
Steel is made from iron.
100 metres from the scene of the accident
You can see the island from here.
From a financial point of view the project was a disaster.
The temperature varies from 30 degrees to minus 20.
The store sells everything from shoelaces to computers.
Conditions vary from school to school.
Things have gone from bad to worse.
translating from English to Spanish
You need a break from routine.
The party was ousted from power after eighteen years.
She saved him from drowning.
She felt sick from tiredness.
You can tell a lot about a person from their handwriting.
From what I heard the company's in deep trouble.
Is Portuguese very different from Spanish?
I can't tell one twin from the other.
From now on you can work on your own.
She never spoke to him again from that day on.
Linda and her fiancé were there.
Paul and his fiancée were there.
his final act as party leader
The referee blew the final whistle.
The project is in its final stages.
I'd like to return to the final point you made.
the final product
No one could have predicted the final outcome.
The judge's decision is final.
Who has the final say around here?
I'll give you $500 for it, and that's my final offer!
I'm not coming, and that's final!(= I will not change my mind)
He always has to have the last word in any argument.
She reached the final of the 100m hurdles.
the 2014 World Cup Finals (= the last few games in the competition)
The winner of each contest goes through to the grand final.
to sit/take your finals
The performance finally started half an hour late.
I finally managed to get her attention.
When they finally arrived it was well past midnight.
And finally, I would like to thank you all for coming here today.
The matter was not finally settled until later.
What a fiasco!
Stop telling fibs.
Come on, don't fib! Where were you really last night?
You fibber!
dietary fibre
Dried fruits are especially high in fibre.
a high-/low-fibre diet
nylon and other man-made fibres
cotton/wood/nerve/muscle fibres
(literary) She loved him with every fibre of her being.
fibre-optic cables
fibrous tissue
fictional characters
a fictional account of life on a desert island
fictional techniques
The weather here is notoriously fickle.
the fickle world of fashion
a fickle friend
the fickleness of the English climate
All the places and characters in my novel are fictitious (= they do not exist in real life).
a work of popular fiction
historical/romantic fiction
For years he managed to keep up the fiction that he was not married.
a fictionalized account of his childhood
He was fiddling with his keys while he talked to me.
to fiddle the accounts
She fiddled the books (= changed a company's financial records) while working as an accountant.
I've been fiddling about with this design for ages.
Who's been fiddling with the TV again?
an insurance/tax, etc. fiddle
Changing a fuse is one of those fiddly jobs I hate.
fidelity to your principles
marital/sexual fidelity
the fidelity of the translation to the original text
Sit still and stop fidgeting!
Look what I've found!
We've found a great new restaurant near the office.
A whale was found washed up on the shore.
Can you find my bag for me?
Can you find me my bag?
I wanted to talk to him but he was nowhere to be found.
The child was found safe and well.
scientists trying to find a cure for cancer
I managed to find a solution to the problem.
I'm having trouble finding anything new to say on this subject.
Have they found anyone to replace her yet?
Can you find a hotel for me?
Can you find me a hotel?
I find (that) it pays to be honest.
The report found that 30% of the firms studied had failed within a year.
We found the beds very comfortable.
They found him to be charming.
Her blood was found to contain poison.
It was found that her blood contained poison.
You may find it hard to accept your illness.
I find it amazing that they're still together.
She finds it a strain to meet new people.
I keep meaning to write, but never seem to find (the) time.
How are we going to find £5 000 for a car?
She woke up and found herself in a hospital bed.
We came home and found him asleep on the sofa.
I suddenly found myself running down the street.
I was disappointed to find that they had left already.
Water will always find its own level.
Most of the money finds its way to the people who need it.
The criticism found its mark (= had the effect intended).
These flowers are found only in Africa.
You'll find this style of architecture all over the town.
The jury found him guilty.
How do you find the accused?
The court found in her favour.
I only recently joined the firm so I'm still finding my feet.
Can you find it in your heart to forgive her?
He couldn't find it in himself to trust anyone again.
I hope you can find your way home.
He eventually found his way into acting.
The children were nowhere to be seen.
A peace settlement is nowhere in sight (= is not likely in the near future).
The jury found for the defendant.
She'd been seeing the boy for a while, but didn't want her parents to find out.
I haven't found anything out about him yet.
Can you find out what time the meeting starts?
We found out later that we had been at the same school.
He had been cheating the taxman but it was years before he was found out.
an important archaeological find
Our new babysitter is a real find.
the company's fiduciary duty to its shareholders
She considers the office as her own private fiefdom.
People were working in the fields.
a ploughed field
a field of wheat
We camped in a field near the village.
a landing field
a medal for bravery in the field (of battle)
ice fields
gas fields
famous in the field of music
All of them are experts in their chosen field.
This discovery has opened up a whole new field of research.
a field study/investigation
field research/methods
essential reading for those working in the field
a baseball/rugby/football, etc. field
a sports field
Today they take the field (= go on to the field to play a game) against county champions Essex.
The field includes three world-record holders.
They lead the field in home entertainment systems.
the earth's gravitational field
an electro-magnetic field
You will need to create separate fields for first name, surname and address.
Each of the main parties fielded more than 300 candidates.
England fielded a young side in the World Cup.
He won the toss and chose to field first.
He fielded the ball expertly.
The BBC had to field more than 300 phone calls after last night's programme.
The tabloid press had a field day with the latest government scandal.
Field Marshal Montgomery
We went on a geology field trip.
Laboratory and field tests have been conducted.
a crossword fiend
a fiendish act
shrieks of fiendish laughter
a puzzle of fiendish complexity
a fiendish plan
a fiendish problem
fiendishly clever/complicated
fiery red hair
The sun was now sinking, a fiery ball of light in the west.
She has a fiery temper.
a fiery young man
a fiery look
a fiery Mexican dish
He's in the first fifteen.
Today is the fifth (of May).
the fifth century BC
It's her fifth birthday.
My office is on the fifth floor.
It's the fifth time that I've been to America.
Her mother had just given birth to another child, her fifth.
the world's fifth-largest oil exporter
He finished fifth in the race.
Edward V (= Edward the Fifth)
She cut the cake into fifths.
He gave her a fifth of the total amount.
Fifthly, we need to consider the effect on the local population.
She was born in the fifties.
He retired in his fifties.
Put a fifty pence in the machine.
Have you got a 50p?
Costs are to be shared on a fifty-fifty basis between the government and local businesses.
She has a fifty-fifty chance of winning (= an equal chance of winning or losing).
Let's split this fifty-fifty.
a fig tree
See fig. 3.
soldiers trained to fight
He fought in Vietnam.
My grandfather fought against the Fascists in Spain.
to fight a war/battle
They gathered soldiers to fight the invading army.
My little brothers are always fighting.
She'll fight like a tiger to protect her children.
to fight an election/a campaign
She's fighting for a place in the national team.
to fight racism/corruption/poverty, etc.
Workers are fighting the decision to close the factory.
The fire crews had problems fighting the blaze.
We will fight for as long as it takes.
He's still fighting for compensation after the accident.
She gradually fought her way to the top of the company.
Doctors fought for more than six hours to save his life.
It's a trivial matter and not worth fighting about.
Doctors fear he may never fight again.
He fought his wife for custody of the children.
I'm determined to fight the case.
Fighting broke out in three districts of the city last night.
outbreaks of street fighting
What we want from the management is fighting talk.
The residents are fighting tooth and nail to stop the new development.
Don't let them bully you. Fight back!
It is time to fight back against street crime.
I was fighting back the tears.
He fought down his disgust.
The jeweller was stabbed as he tried to fight the robbers off.
The conflict is still being fought out.
They hadn't reached any agreement so we left them to fight it out.
a street/gang fight
A fight broke out between rival groups of fans.
a world title fight (= fighting as a sport, especially boxing )
the fight against crime
a fight for survival
Workers won their fight to stop compulsory redundancies.
The team put up a good fight (= they played well) but were finally beaten.
She now has a fight on her hands (= will have to play very well) to make it through to the next round.
Did you have a fight with him?
We had a fight over money.
In the fight for Lemburg, the Austrians were defeated.
In spite of many defeats, they still had plenty of fight left in them.
a jet fighter
a fighter pilot
fighter bases
a figurative artist
She is, figuratively speaking, holding a gun to his head.
the latest trade/sales/unemployment, etc. figures
By 2009, this figure had risen to 14 million.
Experts put the real figure at closer to 75%.
Write the figure '7' on the board.
a six-figure salary (= over 100 000 pounds or dollars)
His salary is now in six figures.
Are you any good at figures?
I'm afraid I don't have a head for figures (= I am not good at adding, etc.).
a leading figure in the music industry
a political figure
a figure of authority
a tall figure in black
She's always had a good figure.
I'm watching my figure (= trying not to get fat).
The central figure in the painting is the artist's daughter.
a bronze figure of a horse
The results are illustrated in figure 3 opposite.
a five-sided figure
a solid figure
My feelings about the matter didn't seem to figure at all.
Do I still figure in your plans?
The question of the peace settlement is likely to figure prominently in the talks.
It did not figure high on her list of priorities.
I figured (that) if I took the night train, I could be in Scotland by morning.
We figured the sensible thing to do was to wait.
That's what I figured.
He tried to figure why she had come.
We figured the attendance at 150 000.
People are more aware of the risks of smoking nowadays, but more young women are smoking than ever. Go figure!
'John called in sick.' 'That figures, he wasn't feeling well yesterday.'
(disapproving) 'She was late again.' 'Yes, that figures.'
I hadn't figured on getting home so late.
We couldn't figure her out.
I can't figure out how to do this.
Have you figured out how much the trip will cost?
figured pottery
glass/metal filaments
a box file
A stack of files awaited me on my desk.
to access/copy/create/delete/download/save a file
Every file on the same disk must have a different name.
secret police files
Your application will be kept on file (= in a file, to be used later).
to have/open/keep a confidential file on sb
Police have reopened the file (= have started collecting information again) on the missing girl.
They set off in file behind the teacher.
The forms should be filed alphabetically.
Please file it in my 'Research' file.
I filed the letters away in a drawer.
to file for divorce
to file a claim/complaint/petition/lawsuit
He filed to divorce his wife.
The doors of the museum opened and the visitors began to file in.
to file your nails
Illegal music file-sharing sites have spread through the Net.
filial affection/duty
a bankruptcy filing
iron filings
Please fill this glass for me.
to fill a vacuum/void
The school is filled to capacity.
Smoke filled the room.
The wind filled the sails.
A Disney film can always fill cinemas (= attract a lot of people to see it).
to fill a hole with earth/a bucket with water
Fill a pan half full of water.
The room was filling quickly.
Her eyes suddenly filled with tears.
The sails filled with wind.
The crack in the wall had been filled with plaster.
I need to have two teeth filled (= to have fillings put in them).
(figurative) The product has filled a gap in the market.
We were all filled with admiration for his achievements.
a smoke-filled room
a fun-filled day
More nurseries will be built to fill the need for high-quality child care.
He fills the post satisfactorily (= performs his duties well).
The team needs someone to fill the role of manager very soon.
The vacancy has already been filled.
How do you fill your day now that you've retired?
The kids filled themselves with snacks.
to fill in an application form
To order, fill in the coupon on p 54.
The hole has been filled in.
He filled in the rest of the day watching television.
The ditches had filled up with mud.
to fill up the tank with oil
I've had my fill of entertaining for one week.
The song was originally a filler on their first album.
plaice fillets
a fillet of cod
fillet steak
I had to have two fillings at the dentist's today.
a sponge cake with cream and jam filling
a wide range of sandwich fillings
This cake is very filling.
A drop in interest rates gave a welcome fillip to the housing market.
Let's go to the cinema— there's a good film on this week.
Let's stay in and watch a film.
a horror/documentary/feature film
a silent film (= one recorded without sound)
an international film festival
a film crew/critic/director/producer
the film version of the novel
to make/shoot a film
to study film and photography
the film industry
television news film of the riots
The accident was captured/caught on film.
a roll of film
a 35mm film
She put a new film in her camera.
to have a film developed
Everything was covered in a film of dust.
They are filming in Moscow right now.
The show was filmed on location in New York.
Two young boys were filmed stealing CDs on the security video.
Filming was delayed because of bad weather.
a filmy cotton blouse
an air/oil filter
a coffee/water filter
filter paper for the coffee machine
He smokes cigarettes without filters.
All drinking water must be filtered.
Use a sun block that filters UVA effectively.
(figurative) My secretary is very good at filtering my calls (= making sure that calls that I do not want do not get through).
The doors opened and people started filtering through.
More details about the crash are filtering through.
Sunlight filtered in through the curtains.
to filter out dust particles/light/impurities
The test is used to filter out candidates who may be unsuitable.
The software filters out Internet sites whose content is not suitable for children.
The floor was covered in grease and filth.
How can you read such filth?
filthy rags/streets
It's filthy in here!
filthy language/words
He's got a filthy mind (= is always thinking about sex).
He was in a filthy mood.
She has a filthy temper.
Ann gave him a filthy look.
Isn't it a filthy day?
tail fins
He finagled some tickets for tonight's big game.
the rousing finale of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony
The festival ended with a grand finale in Hyde Park.
a fitting finale to the day's events
to finalize your plans/arrangements
They met to finalize the terms of the treaty.
an Olympic finalist
the finality of death
There was a note of finality in his voice.
Finance for education comes from taxpayers.
the Minister of Finance
the finance director/department
a diploma in banking and finance
the world of high finance (= finance involving large companies or countries)
government/public/personal finances
It's about time you sorted out your finances.
Moving house put a severe strain on our finances.
The building project will be financed by the government.
He took a job to finance his stay in Germany.
financial services
to give financial advice
to be in financial difficulties
an independent financial adviser
Tokyo and New York are major financial centres.
She is still financially dependent on her parents.
Financially, I'm much better off than before.
Such projects are not financially viable without government funding.
to apply for financial aid
the current financial year
The project will only go ahead if they can raise the necessary financing.
The findings of the commission will be published today.
a very fine performance
fine clothes/wines/workmanship
a particularly fine example of Saxon architecture
Jim has made a fine job of the garden.
people who enjoy the finer things in life (= for example art, good food, etc.)
He tried to appeal to their finer feelings (= feelings of duty, love, etc.).
It was his finest hour (= most successful period) as manager of the England team.
I was feeling fine when I got up this morning.
'I'll leave this here, OK?' 'Fine.'
'Bob wants to know if he can come too.' ' That's fine by me.'
Don't worry. Your speech was fine.
You go on without me. I'll be fine.
'Can I get you another drink?' 'No, thanks. I'm fine.'
(ironic) This is a fine (= terrible) mess we're in!
(ironic) You're a fine one to talk!(= you are not in a position to criticize, give advice, etc.)
a fine view
a fine-looking woman
a fine figure of a man
fine bone china
She has inherited her mother's fine features (= a small nose, mouth, etc.).
a fine day/evening
I hope it stays fine for the picnic.
fine blond hair
a fine thread
a brush with a fine tip
You really need a magnifying glass to appreciate all the fine detail.
There's no need to make such fine distinctions.
There's a fine line between love and hate (= it is easy for one to become the other).
fine sand
Use a finer piece of sandpaper to finish.
He was a fine man.
His speech was full of fine words which meant nothing.
fine gold
Not to put too fine a point on it, I think you are lying.
He was walking a fine line between being funny and being rude.
Keep going like that—you're doing fine.
Things were going fine until you showed up.
That arrangement suits me fine.
(BrE) An omelette will do me fine (= will be enough for me).
Offenders will be liable to a heavy fine (= one that costs a lot of money).
She has already paid over $2 000 in fines.
She was fined for speeding.
The company was fined £20 000 for breaching safety regulations.
The system is set up but it needs some fine-tuning.
finely chopped herbs
a finely furnished room
a finely tuned engine
The match was finely balanced throughout.
fineness of detail
the fineness of the gold
to finesse a deal
She ran her fingers through her hair.
Hold the material between finger and thumb.
He was about to speak but she raised a finger to her lips.
long-fingered
nimble-fingered
a four-fingered chord
a finger of toast
chocolate fingers
You're going to have to pull your finger out if you want to pass this exam.
I never laid a finger on her.
There was something odd about him but I couldn't put my finger on it.
The children never lift a finger to help around the house.
The article points an accusing finger at the authorities.
Don't let the chance to work abroad slip through your fingers.
Gary sat fingering his beard, saying nothing.
Who fingered him for the burglaries?
She's a perfectionist to her fingertips.
a finicky eater
It's a very finicky job.
Haven't you finished your homework yet?
She finished law school last year.
I thought you'd never finish!
a beautifully finished piece of furniture
He put the finishing touches to his painting (= did the things that made it complete).
Be quiet! He hasn't finished speaking.
'And that was all,' she finished.
The play finished at 10.30.
The symphony finishes with a flourish.
A cup of coffee finished the meal perfectly.
He finished off his drink with one large gulp.
We might as well finish up the cake.
She was delighted to finish second.
The dollar finished the day slightly down.
He finished 12 seconds outside the world record.
Climbing that hill really finished me off.
A lecture from my parents now would just finish me.
The hunter moved in to finish the animal off.
I need about an hour to finish off this report.
They finished off the show with one of their most famous songs.
If you're not careful, you could finish up seriously ill.
She finished with her boyfriend last week.
He'll regret he ever said it once I've finished with him.
When you've finished with the book, can I see it?
I've finished with gambling.
We had a five-course lunch and finished up with coffee and mints.
To finish with, we'll listen to a few songs.
a dramatic finish to the race
It was a close finish, as they had predicted.
They won in the end but it was a tight finish.
The story was a lie from start to finish.
I want to see the job through to the finish.
a gloss/matt finish
furniture available in a range of finishes
The bows will give a feminine finish to the curtains.
I won't be finished for another hour.
I'm not finished with you yet.
If the newspapers find out, he's finished in politics.
Their marriage was finished.
the finished product/article
a beautifully finished suit
The two horses crossed the finishing line together.
a finite number of possibilities
The world's resources are finite.
'Am', 'is', 'are', 'was' and 'were' are the finite forms of 'be'; 'being' and 'been' are the non-finite forms.
Most animals are afraid of fire.
The car was now on fire.
The warehouse has been badly damaged by fire.
Several youths had set fire to the police car (= had made it start burning).
A candle had set the curtains on fire.
These thatched roofs frequently catch fire (= start to burn).
forest fires
Five people died in a house fire last night.
A small fire had started in the kitchen.
Fires were breaking out everywhere.
It took two hours to put out the fire (= stop it burning).
to make/build a fire
a log/coal fire
Sam had lit a fire to welcome us home.
Come and get warm by the fire.
We sat in front of a roaring fire.
a gas/electric fire
Shall I put the fire on?
a burst of machine-gun fire
to return fire (= to fire back at sb who is shooting at you)
The gunmen opened fire on (= started shooting at) the police.
Their vehicle came under fire (= was being shot at).
He ordered his men to hold their fire (= not to shoot).
A young girl was in the line of fire (= between the person shooting and what he/she was shooting at).
Her eyes were full of fire.
The project had hung fire for several years for lack of funds.
He couldn't breathe. His chest was on fire.
The officer ordered his men to fire.
Soldiers fired on the crowd.
They ran away as soon as the first shot was fired.
He fired the gun into the air.
Missiles were fired at the enemy.
We heard the sound of guns firing.
A starter's pistol fires only blanks.
She fired an arrow at the target.
We had to fire him for dishonesty.
She got fired from her first job.
He was responsible for hiring and firing staff.
The talk had fired her with enthusiasm for the project.
His imagination had been fired by the film.
gas-fired central heating
to fire pottery
to fire bricks in a kiln
The room was full of journalists, all firing questions at them.
'I've got a few questions.' 'OK then, fire away.'
They fired off a volley of shots.
He fired off a letter of complaint.
She spent an hour firing off emails to all concerned.
She's all fired up about her new job.
We need to fire up one of the generators.
Let me fire up another window (= on the computer screen).
Who set off the fire alarm?
to call out the fire brigade
The fire brigade were there in minutes.
The company was forced to have a fire sale of its assets.
The police were issued with firearms.
firefighting equipment/vehicles
This is my friend Tom.
Is he a friend of yours?
She's an old friend (= I have known her a long time).
He's one of my best friends.
a close/good friend
a childhood/family/lifelong friend
I heard about it through a friend of a friend.
She has a wide circle of friends.
the Friends of St Martin's Hospital
a friend of democracy
You're among friends here—you can speak freely.
I wish our friend at the next table would shut up.
my honourable friend, the member for Henley (= in the House of Commons)
my noble friend (= in the House of Lords)
my learned friend (= in a court of law)
(figurative) The company has enormous financial firepower.
a fireproof door
a fireproof dish (= that can be heated in an oven)
sitting by the fireside
(BrE) to let off a few fireworks
(NAmE) to set off a few fireworks
a firework(s) display
When do the fireworks start?
There'll be fireworks when he finds out!
There was continuous firing throughout the night.
teachers protesting against the firing of a colleague
She's responsible for the hirings and firings.
He was executed by (a) firing squad.
an engineering firm
a firm of accountants
a firm bed/mattress
These peaches are still firm.
Bake the cakes until they are firm to the touch.
a firm believer in socialism
a firm agreement/date/decision/offer/promise
firm beliefs/conclusions/convictions/principles
She is a firm favourite with the children.
We have no firm evidence to support the case.
They remained firm friends.
Stand the fish tank on a firm base.
No building can stand without firm foundations, and neither can a marriage.
'No,' she repeated, her voice firmer this time.
With a firm grip on my hand, he pulled me away.
Her handshake was cool and firm.
to exercise firm control/discipline/leadership
Parents must be firm with their children.
The company now has a firm footing in the marketplace.
This book will give your students a firm grasp of English grammar.
We need to keep a firm grip on the situation.
The euro remained firm against the dollar, but fell against the yen.
We need to take a firm line on tobacco advertising.
They took a firm stand against drugs in the school.
She held firm to her principles.
Firm the soil around the plant.
This product claims to firm your body in six weeks.
The company's shares firmed 3p to 696p.
Put the mixture somewhere cool to firm up.
The company has not yet firmed up its plans for expansion.
The precise details still have to be firmed up.
A few weeks of aerobics will firm up that flabby stomach.
(figurative) a rising star in the literary firmament
'I can manage,' she said firmly.
It is now firmly established as one of the leading brands in the country.
Keep your eyes firmly fixed on the road ahead.
his first wife
the first turning on the right
It was the first time they had ever met.
I didn't take the first bus.
students in their first year at college
your first impressions
She resolved to do it at the first (= earliest) opportunity.
King Edward I (= pronounced 'King Edward the First')
the first of May/May 1st
His second book is better than his first.
Your first duty is to your family.
She won first prize in the competition.
an issue of the first importance
'Do you want a drink?' 'I'll finish my work first.'
First I had to decide what to wear.
Who came first in the race (= who won)?
It plunged nose first into the river.
When did you first meet him?
This method has two advantages: first it is cheaper and second it is quicker.
She swore that she wouldn't apologize—she'd die first!
He does a little teaching, but first and foremost he's a writer.
She regarded herself, first and last, as a musician.
Tickets are available on a first come, first served basis.
First of all, let me ask you something.
The content of any article needs, first of all, to be relevant to the reader.
First off, let's see how much it'll cost.
She always puts her children first.
He fell head first down the stairs.
She got divorced and rushed head first into another marriage.
I was the first in my family to go to college.
Sheila and Jim were the first to arrive.
The first I heard about the wedding (= the first time I became aware of it) was when I saw it in the local paper.
The first I knew of a problem was around 9.30 a.m. last Monday.
I'd be the first to admit (= I will most willingly admit) I might be wrong.
The poorest will be the first to suffer.
We went on a cruise, a first for both of us.
He stuck the car in first and revved.
She got a first in maths at Exeter.
They were attracted to each other from the first.
It's a fine performance that commands attention from first to last.
to give first aid
a first-aid course
He didn't make it past first base.
There is more room in first class.
First class costs more.
to travel first class
I sent the package first class on Monday.
What was your first degree in?
to study geography at first-degree level
Menswear is on the first floor.
a first-floor flat/apartment
the first generation of personal computers
first-generation Caribbeans in the UK
the first lady of country music
His first language is Welsh.
We left at first light.
His first name is Tom and his surname is Green.
Please give all your first names.
(BrE) to be on first-name terms with sb (= to call them by their first name as a sign of a friendly informal relationship)
(NAmE) to be on a first-name basis
'I am' is the first person singular of the present tense of the verb 'to be'.
'I', 'me', 'we' and 'us' are first-person pronouns.
a novel written in the first person
I think we should go back to first principles.
Will you give me first refusal on the car, if you decide to sell it?
We have a lot to discuss, but, first things first, let's have a cup of coffee!
a first-class novel
a first-class writer
The car was in first-class condition.
I know a place where the food is first-class.
first-class rail travel
a first-class cabin/seat/ticket
first-class mail/post/postage/stamps
She was awarded a first-class degree in English.
his first-ever visit to London
the first-ever woman vice-president
to have first-hand experience of poverty
to experience poverty first-hand
In my opinion, a lot of first-person shooter games are too violent for younger players.
a first-rate swimmer
The food here is absolutely first-rate.
houses for first-time buyers
a computer program designed for first-time users
conference first-timers
I passed my driving test first go.
I need the report on my desk first thing Monday morning.
their firstborn son
There are two reasons for this decision: firstly…
the Moray Firth
the Firth of Clyde
fiscal policies/reforms
They caught several fish.
tropical/marine/freshwater fish
shoals (= groups) of fish
a fish tank/pond
There are about 30 000 species of fish in the world.
The list of endangered species includes nearly 600 fishes.
Fish stocks in the Baltic are in decline.
frozen/smoked/fresh fish
fish pie
The trawler was fishing off the coast of Iceland.
You can fish for trout in this stream.
Let's go fishing this weekend.
They fished the loch for salmon.
She fished around in her bag for her keys.
to fish for compliments/information
She fished a piece of paper out of the pile on her desk.
They fished a dead body out of the river.
Three portions of fish and chips, please.
a fish and chip shop
a herring fishery
coastal/freshwater fisheries
a trout fishery
There's something fishy going on here.
What's that fishy smell?
They often go fishing.
deep-sea fishing
a fishing boat
fishing grounds
We enjoyed a day's fishing by the river.
fishnet stockings
fissile material
He punched me with his fist.
She clenched her fists to stop herself trembling.
He got into a fist fight in the bar.
do/give a fist bump
Several of the politician's supporters fist-bumped him as he left the stage.
When I saw the final score, I gave a fist pump and shouted out 'YES!'
They sang, they fist-pumped and they cheered the speakers.
a fistful of coins
I tried the dress on but it didn't fit.
That jacket fits well.
a close-fitting dress
I can't find clothes to fit me.
The key doesn't fit the lock.
I'd like to have a desk in the room but it won't fit.
All the kids will fit in the back of the car.
I'm going to be fitted for my wedding dress today.
They fitted a smoke alarm to the ceiling.
The rooms were all fitted with smoke alarms.
The glass fits on top of the jug to form a lid.
How do these two parts fit together?
We fitted together the pieces of the puzzle.
Something doesn't quite fit here.
His pictures don't fit into any category.
The facts certainly fit your theory.
The punishment ought to fit the crime.
We should fit the punishment to the crime.
His experience fitted him perfectly for the job.
His experience fitted him to do the job.
I'll try and fit you in after lunch.
I had to fit ten appointments into one morning.
We can't fit in any more chairs.
He's never done this type of work before; I'm not sure how he'll fit in with the other people.
Where do I fit in?
Do these plans fit in with your arrangements?
to fit out a ship before a long voyage
The room has been fitted out with a stove and a sink.
I didn't do it—I've been fitted up!
Top athletes have to be very fit.
He won't be fit to play in the match on Saturday.
She tries to keep fit by jogging every day.
(BrE)He's had a bad cold and isn't fit enough for work yet.
I feel really fighting fit (= very healthy and full of energy).
The government aims to make British industry leaner and fitter (= employing fewer people and with lower costs).
The food was not fit for human consumption.
It was a meal fit for a king (= of very good quality).
The children seem to think I'm only fit for cooking and washing!
Your car isn't fit to be on the road!
He's so angry he's in no fit state to see anyone.
(formal) This is not a fit place for you to live.
They worked until they were fit to drop (= so tired that they were likely to fall down).
I've eaten so much I'm fit to burst.
She was laughing fit to burst (= very much).
You must do as you think fit (= but I don't agree with your decision).
The newspaper did not see fit to publish my letter (= and I criticize it for that).
to have an epileptic fit
Her fits are now controlled by drugs.
a fit of coughing
He had us all in fits (of laughter) with his jokes.
to act in a fit of anger/rage/temper/pique
a good/bad/close/perfect fit
We need to work out the best fit between the staff required and the staff available.
Your mother would have a fit if she knew you'd been drinking!
a fitful night's sleep
to sleep fitfully
a magazine on health and fitness
a fitness instructor/class/test
a high level of physical fitness
He convinced us of his fitness for the task.
There were doubts about her fitness to hold office.
fitted wardrobes/cupboards
a fitted kitchen/bedroom
a fitted jacket
She was well fitted to the role of tragic heroine.
Insurance costs will be reduced for houses fitted with window locks.
a gas fitter
The award was a fitting tribute to her years of devoted work.
A fitting end to the meal would be a glass of port.
It is fitting that the new centre for European studies should be in a university that teaches every European language.
a tight-fitting dress
light fittings
a pine cupboard with brass fittings
There are only five cookies left.
five of Sweden's top financial experts
Ten people were invited but only five turned up.
Do you have change for five dollars?
a five-month contract
Look at page five.
Five and four is nine.
Three fives are fifteen.
I can't read your writing—is this meant to be a five?
The bulbs are planted in threes or fives (= groups of three or five).
We moved to America when I was five (= five years old).
Shall we meet at five (= at five o'clock), then?
Give me five!
I work nine to five.
a nine-to-five job
Have you got a five pence?
a five-star hotel
a five-star general
Can you lend me a fiver?
to fix a shelf to the wall
to fix a post in the ground
(figurative) He noted every detail so as to fix the scene in his mind.
Has the date of the next meeting been fixed?
They fixed the rent at £100 a week.
Their prices are fixed until the end of the year (= will not change before then).
I'll fix a meeting.
You have to fix visits up in advance with the museum.
(informal) Don't worry, I'll fix it with Sarah.
I've fixed up (for us) to go to the theatre next week.
We can fix the ship's exact position at the time the fire broke out.
The car won't start—can you fix it?
I've fixed the problem.
Can I fix you a drink?
Can I fix a drink for you?
I'll fix supper.
I'll fix my hair and then I'll be ready.
I'm sure the race was fixed.
Don't worry—I'll fix him.
He fixed her with an angry stare.
They've fixed on Paris for their honeymoon.
They fixed up the house before they moved in.
I'll fix you up with a place to stay.
There is no quick fix for the steel industry.
to get yourself a fix
I need a fix of coffee before I can face the day.
We've got ourselves in a fix about this.
They managed to get a fix on the yacht's position.
He tried to get a fix on the young man's motives, but he just couldn't understand him.
Her promotion was a fix, I'm sure!
a mother fixation
He's got this fixation with cleanliness.
nitrogen fixation
fixed prices
a fixed rate of interest
people living on fixed incomes
The money has been invested for a fixed period.
My parents had fixed ideas about what I should become.
He greeted all his guests with a fixed smile on his face.
How are you fixed for cash?
How are we fixed for Saturday (= have we arranged to do anything)?
to stare/gaze fixedly at sb/sth
a great political fixer
a hamburger with all the fixings
picnic fixings
an annual fixture
Saturday's fixture against Liverpool
the season's fixture list
(BrE) The price of the house includes fixtures and fittings.
(figurative) He has stayed with us so long he seems to have become a permanent fixture.
Champagne was fizzing in the glass.
(figurative) Share prices are fizzing.
(figurative) He started to fizz with enthusiasm.
(figurative) There is plenty of fizz and sparkle in the show.
(figurative) The fizz has gone out of the market.
the fizz of a firework
The party was a fizzer.
fizzy drinks
Add 8 fl oz water.
flabby thighs
a flabby grip
a flabby argument
flaccid breasts
the Italian flag
the flag of Italy
The hotel flies the European Union flag.
The American flag was flying.
All the flags were at half mast (= in honour of a famous person who has died).
The black and white flag went down, and the race began.
to swear allegiance to the flag
He was working under the flag of the United Nations.
yellow flags
Our exporters keep the flag flying at international trade exhibitions.
I've flagged the paragraphs that we need to look at in more detail.
It had been a long day and the children were beginning to flag.
Her confidence had never flagged.
flagging support/enthusiasm
The report flagged up the dangers of under-age drinking.
a flagged floor
a flagrant abuse of human rights
He showed a flagrant disregard for anyone else's feelings.
The company is opening a new flagship store in London.
The boys flailed around on the floor.
He was running along, his arms flailing wildly.
He has a flair for languages.
artistic flair
She dresses with real flair.
He's taken a lot of flak for his left-wing views.
She came in for a lot of flak from the press.
flakes of snow/paint
dried onion flakes
You could see bare wood where the paint had flaked off.
His skin was dry and flaking.
Flake the tuna and add to the sauce.
flaked almonds
When I got home he'd already flaked out on the bed.
flaky pastry
dry flaky skin
I found the software a bit flaky.
a flamboyant gesture/style/personality
flamboyant clothes/designs
the tiny yellow flame of a match
The flames were growing higher and higher.
The building was in flames (= was burning).
The plane burst into flame(s) (= suddenly began burning strongly).
Everything went up in flames (= was destroyed by fire).
a flame-red car
a flame of passion
The logs flamed on the hearth.
(figurative) Hope flamed in her.
Her cheeks flamed with rage.
flamenco dancing
to dance the flamenco
a flaming argument/temper
Flaming fragments were still falling from the sky.
You flaming idiot!
flaming (red) hair
a flaming sunset
highly flammable liquids
a mushroom/strawberry flan
Have some more flan.
She left the courtroom flanked by armed guards.
They drove through the cotton fields that flanked Highway 17.
a flannel shirt
a grey flannel suit
a face flannel
the flap of an envelope
I zipped the tent flaps shut.
With a flap of its wings, the bird was gone.
the flap of the sails
She gets in a flap over the slightest thing.
the flap about the President's business affairs
The bird flapped its wings and flew away.
The gulls flew off, wings flapping.
The sails flapped in the breeze.
Two large birds flapped (= flew) slowly across the water.
She walked up and down, flapping her arms to keep warm.
A gust of wind flapped the tents.
There's no need to flap—I've got everything under control.
The match flared and went out.
The fire flared into life.
(figurative) Colour flared in her cheeks.
Violence flared when the police moved in.
Tempers flared towards the end of the meeting.
'You should have told me!' she flared at him.
The sleeves are tight to the elbow, then flare out.
The horse backed away, its nostrils flaring with fear.
The flare of the match lit up his face.
The ship sent up distress flares to attract the attention of the coastguard.
a skirt with a slight flare
a pair of flares
a flare-up of tension between the two sides
a flare-up of the bushfires
Lightning flashed in the distance.
the flashing blue lights of a police car
A neon sign flashed on and off above the door.
The guide flashed a light into the cave.
Red lights flashed a warning at them.
Red lights flashed them a warning.
Why is that driver flashing at us?
He flashed his pass at the security officer.
The countryside flashed past the train windows.
A look of terror flashed across his face.
A terrible thought flashed through my mind.
A message was flashing on his pager.
His name was flashed up on the screen.
News of their triumph was flashed around the world.
Her eyes flashed with anger.
He's always flashing his money around.
Her thoughts flashed back to their wedding day.
The morning has just flashed by.
It flashed on me that he was the man I'd seen in the hotel.
I flashed on an argument I had with my sister when we were kids.
a flash of lightning
Flashes of light were followed by an explosion.
There was a blinding flash and the whole building shuddered.
a camera with a built-in flash
I'll need flash for this shot.
flash photography
a flash of white teeth
On the horizon, she saw a flash of silver—the sea!
a flash of anger/inspiration, etc.
a flash car
He's very flash, isn't he?
The events that led up to the murder were shown in a series of flashbacks.
The reader is told the story in flashback.
four-way flashers (= four lights that flash together to warn other drivers of possible danger)
a flashy hotel
I just want a good reliable car, nothing flashy.
He specializes in flashy technique, without much depth.
flashily dressed
Tension in the city is rapidly reaching flashpoint.
potential flashpoints in the south of the country
a flask of tea/coffee
low buildings with flat roofs
People used to think the earth was flat.
Exercise is the only way to get a flat stomach after having a baby.
The sails hung limply in the flat calm (= conditions at sea when there is no wind and the water is completely level).
The road stretched ahead across the flat landscape.
I need a flat surface to write on.
We found a large flat rock to sit on.
Chapattis are a kind of flat Indian bread.
flat shoes (= with no heels or very low ones)
He felt very flat after his friends had gone home.
Her voice was flat and expressionless.
Acrylic paints can be used to create large, flat blocks of colour.
The housing market has been flat for months.
Her request was met with a flat refusal.
He gave a flat 'No!' to one reporter's question.
That note should be B flat, not B.
The high notes were slightly flat.
The soda was warm and had gone flat.
Her resignation put her colleagues in a spin.
Do you live in a flat or a house?
They're renting a furnished flat on the third floor.
a ground-floor flat
a new block of flats
Many large old houses have been converted into flats.
Children from the flats (= the block of flats) across the street were playing outside.
He beat on the door with the flat of his hand.
the flat of a sword
salt flats
There are no sharps or flats in the key of C major.
We got a flat on the way home.
We had to stop to fix a flat.
a pair of flats
Lie flat and breathe deeply.
They pressed themselves flat against the tunnel wall as the train approached.
She told me flat she would not speak to me again.
I made them a reasonable offer but they turned it down flat.
He sings flat all the time.
Workers are working flat out to meet the rise in demand for new cars.
I told him flat out 'No'.
It's a 30-year mortgage we just flat out can't handle.
They changed the wheel in three minutes flat (= in only three minutes).
My sister Zoe flats in Auckland.
Interest is charged at a flat rate of 11%.
They were caught flat-footed by the attack.
His story was full of contradictions and flat-out lies.
She just flat-out hated me.
to flatly deny/reject/oppose sth
I flatly refused to spend any more time helping him.
'Oh, it's you,' she said flatly.
The cookies will flatten slightly while cooking.
These exercises will help to flatten your stomach.
He flattened his hair down with gel.
Most of the factory was flattened by the explosion.
Our team was flattened this evening!
He flattened the intruder with a single punch.
I'll flatten you if you do that again!
She flattened her nose against the window and looked in.
Greg flattened himself against the wall to let me pass.
The hills first rose steeply then flattened out towards the sea.
Export growth has started to flatten out.
Are you trying to flatter me?
'How will you manage without me?' 'Don't flatter yourself.'
That colour doesn't flatter many people.
The scoreline flattered England (= they did not deserve to get such a high score).
You're too intelligent to fall for his flattery.
a flattering dress
flattering remarks
I found it flattering that he still recognized me after all these years.
He did not believe in flaunting his wealth.
She openly flaunted her affair with the senator.
The tomatoes give extra flavour to the sauce.
It is stronger in flavour than other Dutch cheeses.
This yogurt comes in ten different flavours.
a wine with a delicate fruit flavour
the distinctive flavour of South Florida
Foreign visitors help to give a truly international flavour to the occasion.
I have tried to convey something of the flavour of the argument.
lemon-flavoured sweets/candy
flavoured yogurt
orange/vanilla flavouring
This food contains no artificial flavourings.
The meat was tough and flavourless.
The argument is full of fundamental flaws.
The report reveals fatal flaws in security at the airport.
There is always a flaw in the character of a tragic hero.
seriously/fundamentally/fatally flawed
a flawed argument
the book's flawed heroine
a flawless complexion/performance
Her English is almost flawless.
The dog has fleas.
His hair was dark, with flecks of grey.
flecks of dust/foam/dandruff
The fabric was red, flecked with gold.
His hair was flecked with paint.
fledgling democracies
She burst into tears and fled.
a camp for refugees fleeing from the war
He fled to London after an argument with his family.
He was caught trying to flee the country.
a fleece lining
a bright red fleece
Some local shops have been fleecing tourists.
a fleecy sweatshirt
a blue sky with fleecy clouds
a fishing/whaling fleet
a reduction in the size of the British fleet
the company's new fleet of vans
fleet of foot
fleet-footed
Fleet Admiral William Hunter
a fleeting glimpse/smile
a fleeting moment of happiness
We paid a fleeting visit to Paris.
The trap had cut deeply into the rabbit's flesh.
Tigers are flesh-eating animals.
the smell of rotting flesh
His fingers closed around the soft flesh of her arm.
flesh-coloured (= a light brownish pink colour)
the pleasures/sins of the flesh
These points were fleshed out in the later parts of the speech.
fleshy arms/lips
a large fleshy man
fleshy fruit/leaves
fleshly temptations/pleasures
to flex your fingers/feet/legs
He stood on the side of the pool flexing his muscles.
an electric flex
a length of flex
a more flexible approach
flexible working hours
Our plans need to be flexible enough to cater for the needs of everyone.
You need to be more flexible and imaginative in your approach.
flexible plastic tubing
Computers offer a much greater degree of flexibility in the way work is organized.
exercises to develop the flexibility of dancers' bodies
She works flexitime.
She flicked the dust off her collar.
The horse was flicking flies away with its tail.
James flicked a peanut at her.
Please don't flick ash on the carpet!
The snake's tongue flicked out.
Her eyes flicked from face to face.
He lifted his head, flicking his hair off his face.
The horse moved off, flicking its tail.
She flicked a nervous glance at him.
She flicked him a nervous glance.
He flicked a switch and all the lights went out.
She flicked the TV on.
He flicked me with a wet towel.
He flicked a wet towel at me.
to flick a whip
Flick to the next photo and pinch to zoom in or out.
She flicked the screen and searched through her emails.
I've only had time to flick through your report but it seems to be fine.
Flicking through the channels, I came across an old war movie.
Bell's flick into the penalty area helped to create the goal.
All this information is available at the flick of a switch (= by simply turning on a machine).
He threw the ball back with a quick flick of the wrist.
I had a flick through the catalogue while I was waiting.
The lights flickered and went out.
the flickering screen of the television
Anger flickered in his eyes.
Her eyelids flickered as she slept.
the flicker of a television/candle
the flicker of an eyelid
a flicker of hope/doubt/interest
A flicker of a smile crossed her face.
a smooth/comfortable/bumpy flight
a domestic/an international flight
a hot-air balloon flight
We met on a flight from London to Paris.
We're booked on the same flight.
Flight BA 4793 is now boarding at Gate 17.
If we leave now, I can catch the earlier flight.
mercy/relief flights (= planes taking help to countries where there is a war)
the age of supersonic flight
flight safety
The bird is easily recognized in flight (= when it is flying) by the black band at the end of its tail.
the flight of a ball
She fell down a flight of stairs/steps and hurt her back.
the flight of refugees from the advancing forces
The main character is a journalist in flight from a failed marriage.
a flight of geese
an aircraft of the Queen's flight
The gang took flight when they heard the police car.
He equalized with a beautifully flighted shot.
Flight Lieutenant Richard Clarkson
Flight Sergeant Bob Andrews
a flimsy table
a flimsy piece of paper/fabric/plastic
a flimsy excuse/explanation
The evidence against him is pretty flimsy.
He met my gaze without flinching.
He flinched at the sight of the blood.
She flinched away from the dog.
He never flinched from facing up to trouble.
Someone had flung a brick through the window.
He flung her to the ground.
The door was suddenly flung open.
He had his enemies flung into prison.
She flung herself onto the bed.
He flung out an arm to stop her from falling.
They were flinging insults at each other.
They flung themselves into the preparations for the party.
He flung off his coat and collapsed on the sofa.
He was determined to have one last fling before retiring.
prehistoric flint implements
His eyes were as hard as flint.
a flinty look/gaze/stare
flinty pebbles/soils
The plane flipped and crashed.
(figurative) She felt her heart flip (= with excitement, etc.).
He flipped the lid open and looked inside the case.
to flip a switch
She reached over and flipped off the light.
They flipped a coin to decide who would get the ticket.
He flipped the keys onto the desk.
She finally flipped under the pressure.
The car hit a tree and flipped over.
He flipped over and sat up.
The wind flipped over several cars.
She flipped through the magazine looking for the letters page.
Flipping through the channels, I came across an old war movie.
The whole thing was decided on the flip of a coin.
The handstand was followed by a back flip.
(figurative) Her heart did a flip.
I had a quick flip through the report while I was waiting.
a flip answer/comment
Don't be flip with me.
a pair of flip-flops
The vice-president was accused of flip-flopping on several major issues.
a flippant answer/attitude
Sorry, I didn't mean to sound flippant.
I hate this flipping hotel!
Flipping kids!
It's flipping cold today!
She flirted with the idea of becoming an actress when she was younger.
to flirt with danger/death/disaster
She's a real flirt.
a brief and unsuccessful flirtation with the property market
Frank's efforts at flirtation had become tiresome to her.
a flirtatious young woman
a flirtatious smile
Butterflies flitted from flower to flower.
He flits from one job to another.
A smile flitted across his face.
A thought flitted through my mind.
I had to change schools every time my parents flitted.
A group of swans floated by.
The smell of new bread floated up from the kitchen.
Beautiful music came floating out of the window.
(figurative) An idea suddenly floated into my mind.
(figurative) People seem to float in and out of my life.
Wood floats.
A plastic bag was floating in the water.
Can you float on your back?
There wasn't enough water to float the ship.
They float the logs down the river to the towns.
She floated down the steps to greet us.
They floated the idea of increased taxes on alcohol.
The company was floated on the stock market in 2014.
Shares were floated at 585p.
a carnival float
a Coke float
plans for (a) flotation on the stock exchange
a stock-market flotation
floating exchange rates
a floating population (= one in which people frequently move from one place to another)
(medical 医学) a floating kidney
a flock of children/reporters
They came in flocks to see the procession.
flock wallpaper
Thousands of people flocked to the beach this weekend.
Huge numbers of birds had flocked together by the lake.
People flocked to hear him speak.
He was publicly flogged for breaking the country's alcohol laws.
She flogged her guitar to another student.
We buy them cheaply and then flog them off at a profit.
I had a letter from a company trying to flog me insurance.
a public flogging
The heavy rain has caused floods in many parts of the country.
flood damage
Police have issued flood warnings for Nevada.
The river is in flood (= has more water in it than normal and has caused a flood).
a flood of complaints
a flood of refugees
The child was in floods of tears (= crying a lot).
The cellar floods whenever it rains heavily.
If the pipe bursts it could flood the whole house.
When the Ganges floods, it causes considerable damage.
The river flooded the valley.
Refugees continue to flood into neighbouring countries.
Telephone calls came flooding in from all over the country.
The office was flooded with applications for the job.
Cheap imported goods are flooding the market.
A man who planned to flood Britain with cocaine was jailed for 15 years.
A great sense of relief flooded over him.
Memories of her childhood came flooding back.
The words flooded him with self-pity.
She drew the curtains and the sunlight flooded in.
She looked away as the colour flooded her cheeks.
The room was flooded with evening light.
flooded fields
There will be heavy rain with flooding in some areas.
(figurative) If the case is successful, it may open the floodgates to more damages claims against the industry (= start sth that will be difficult to stop).
a match played under floodlights
The floodlighting had been turned off.
The swimming pool is floodlit in the evenings.
floodlit tennis courts
The floodwaters have now receded.
a wooden/concrete/marble, etc. floor
ceramic floor tiles
The body was lying on the kitchen floor.
The alterations should give us extra floor space.
The floor of the car was covered in cigarette ends.
Her office is on the second floor.
the Irish guy who lives two floors above
There is a lift to all floors.
Their house is on three floors (= it has three floors).
a five-storey house
The office building is five storeys high.
His office is on the fifth floor.
the ocean/valley/cave/forest floor
Opposition politicians registered their protest on the floor of the House.
We will now take any questions from the floor.
on the floor of the Stock Exchange (= where trading takes place)
Prices have gone through the floor (= fallen to a very low level).
Couples took the floor for the last dance of the evening.
bare/polished floorboards
a car floorboard
He had his foot to the floorboard (= was going very fast).
vinyl/wooden flooring
kitchen/bathroom flooring
Exhausted, he flopped down into a chair.
Her hair flopped over her eyes.
The young man flopped back, unconscious.
The fish were flopping around in the bottom of the boat.
The play flopped on Broadway.
a floppy hat
alpine flora
rare species of flora and fauna (= plants and animals)
wallpaper with a floral design/pattern
a floral dress
a floral arrangement/display
Floral tributes were sent to the church.
eggs florentine
a florid complexion
florid language
I've ordered some flowers from the florist's.
The beaches are wide and filled with interesting flotsam and jetsam.
the human flotsam of inner cities
She flounced out of the room.
She left the room with a flounce.
a flounced skirt
His abrupt change of subject left her floundering helplessly.
At that time the industry was floundering.
She was floundering around in the deep end of the swimming pool.
Roll the dough on a lightly floured surface.
a fluorescent lamp (= one that uses such a substance)
fluorescent lighting
fluorescent armbands worn by cyclists
floury hands
a floury texture
Few businesses are flourishing in the present economic climate.
These plants flourish in a damp climate.
(especially BrE) I'm glad to hear you're all flourishing.
He opened the door for her with a flourish.
With a final flourish she laid down her pen.
The season ended with a flourish for Rooney, when he scored in the final minute of the match.
a speech full of rhetorical flourishes
a flourish of trumpets
Motorists regularly flout the law.
to flout authority/convention
She tried to stop the flow of blood from the wound.
an endless flow of refugees into the country
to improve traffic flow (= make it move faster)
to control the direction of flow
the flow of goods and services to remote areas
to encourage the free flow of information
data flow
You've interrupted my flow—I can't remember what I was saying.
As usual, Tom was in full flow.
Too many examples can interrupt the smooth flow of the text.
the ebb and flow of the tide
She lost control and the tears began to flow.
It's here that the river flows down into the ocean.
Blood flowed from a cut on her head.
This can prevent air from flowing freely to the lungs.
Constant streams of traffic flowed past.
Election results flowed in throughout the night.
Conversation flowed freely throughout the meal.
It was obvious that money flowed freely in their family.
The party got livelier as the drink began to flow.
Fear and excitement suddenly flowed over me.
Her hair flowed down over her shoulders.
long flowing skirts
The plant has a beautiful bright red flower.
The roses are in flower early this year.
The crocuses are late coming into flower.
a garden full of flowers
a flower garden/show
I picked some flowers.
a bunch of flowers
a flower arrangement
This particular variety flowers in July.
early-flowering spring bulbs
Flt Lt Richard Clarkson
The whole family has the flu.
(BrE) She's got flu.
She flubbed the first line of the song.
fluctuating prices
During the crisis, oil prices fluctuated between $20 and $40 a barrel.
Temperatures can fluctuate by as much as 10 degrees.
My mood seems to fluctuate from day to day.
wild fluctuations in interest rates
Fluency in French is required for this job.
The team lacked fluency during the first half.
She's fluent in Polish.
a fluent speaker/reader
He speaks fluent Italian.
fluent handwriting
fluent movements
He completely fluffed an easy shot (= in sport).
Most actors fluff their lines occasionally.
The female sat on the eggs, fluffing out her feathers.
Let me fluff up your pillows for you.
a little fluffy kitten
Beat the butter and sugar until soft and fluffy.
fluffy white clouds
a fluffy film/movie
a fluffy argument
body fluids (= for example, blood)
The doctor told him to drink plenty of fluids.
cleaning fluid
a loose, fluid style of dancing
fluid guitar playing
the fluid lines of the drawing
a fluid political situation
a fluid consistency
She danced with great fluidity of movement.
the fluidity of human behaviour
social fluidity
They are determined to show that their last win was no fluke.
a fluke goal
She hated the flummery of public relations.
I was flummoxed by her question.
I flunked math in second grade.
She's flunked 13 of the 18 students.
a sudden flurry of activity
Her arrival caused a flurry of excitement.
A flurry of shots rang out in the darkness.
snow flurries
flurries of snow
The ladies departed in a flurry of silks and satins.
She flushed with anger.
Sam felt her cheeks flush red.
A rosy blush flushed her cheeks.
Flush the pipe out with clean water.
Flush clean water through the pipe.
They flushed the drugs down the toilet.
Drinking lots of water will help to flush toxins out of the body.
A pink flush spread over his cheeks.
a flush of anger/embarrassment/enthusiasm/guilt
Give the toilet a flush.
Make sure the paving stones are flush with the lawn.
flushed cheeks
Her face was flushed with anger.
(figurative) He was flushed with success (= very excited and pleased) after his first novel was published.
She arrived late, looking hot and flustered.
fluted columns
Flags fluttered in the breeze.
Her eyelids fluttered but did not open.
He fluttered his hands around wildly.
She fluttered her eyelashes at him (= tried to attract him in order to persuade him to do sth).
The butterfly fluttered from flower to flower.
I could feel a fluttering pulse.
(figurative) The sound of his voice in the hall made her heart flutter.
the flutter of wings
with a flutter of her long, dark eyelashes
(figurative) to feel a flutter of panic in your stomach
to have a flutter on the horses
Her sudden arrival caused quite a flutter.
Her heart gave a flutter when she saw him.
Our society is in a state of flux.
a flux of neutrons
A stork flew slowly past.
A wasp had flown in through the window.
They were on a plane flying from London to New York.
to fly at the speed of sound
Lufthansa fly to La Paz from Frankfurt.
Is this the first time that you've flown?
I'm flying to Hong Kong tomorrow.
I always fly business class.
We're flying KLM.
a pilot trained to fly large passenger planes
children flying kites
He's learning to fly.
The stranded tourists were finally flown home.
He had flowers specially flown in for the ceremony.
to fly the Atlantic
The train was flying along.
She gasped and her hand flew to her mouth.
It's late—I must fly.
A large stone came flying in through the window.
Several people were hit by flying glass.
David gave the door a kick and it flew open.
Doesn't time fly?
Summer has just flown by.
Flags were flying at half mast on all public buildings.
to fly the Stars and Stripes
hair flying in the wind
Both suspects have flown the country.
It remains to be seen whether his project will fly.
Someone's going to go flying if you don't pick up these toys.
He let fly at me with his fist.
She let fly with a stream of abuse.
'With a bit of luck, we'll be finished by the end of the year.' 'Yes, and pigs might fly!'
How time flies! I've got to go now.
Time has flown since the holiday began.
As soon as the kids arrived, order went out of the window.
A fly was buzzing against the window.
Flies rose in thick black swarms.
fly fishing
Your fly is undone!
Your flies are undone!
a fly-drive break
frequent flyers
Butterflies can be strong flyers.
Ford's flashy new flyer
flying insects
I'm terrified of flying.
flying lessons
A flying doctor service operates in remote regions.
to take a flying leap into the air
Flying Officer Ian Wall
It's an area most New Yorkers know as flyover country.
Radio 1 FM
a foam mattress
foam packaging
a glass of beer with a good head of foam
The breaking waves left the beach covered with foam.
shaving foam
Don't let him fob you off with any more excuses.
She wouldn't be fobbed off this time.
He was unaware that he was being fobbed off with out-of-date stock.
In rural areas, the school is often the focal point for the local community.
He quickly became the focal point for those who disagreed with government policy.
The discussion focused on three main problems.
Each exercise focuses on a different grammar point.
The visit helped to focus world attention on the plight of the refugees.
It took a few moments for her eyes to focus in the dark.
Let your eyes focus on objects that are further away from you.
In this scene, the camera focuses on the actor's face.
He focused his blue eyes on her.
I quickly focused the camera on the children.
It was the main focus of attention at the meeting.
His comments provided a focus for debate.
We shall maintain our focus on the needs of the customer.
In today's lecture the focus will be on tax structures within the European Union.
The incident brought the problem of violence in schools into sharp focus.
What we need now is a change of focus (= to look at things in a different way).
The children's faces are badly out of focus (= not clearly shown) in the photograph.
The binoculars were not in focus (= were not showing things clearly).
She should do well in her studies this year—she's very focused.
Without education, these children will end up as factory fodder (= only able to work in a factory).
This story will be more fodder for the gossip columnists.
Dense/thick fog is affecting roads in the north and visibility is poor.
freezing fog
Patches of fog will clear by mid-morning.
We get heavy fogs on this coast in winter.
The town was covered in a thick blanket of fog.
The fog finally lifted (= disappeared).
He went through the day with his mind in a fog.
I tried to clear the confusion that was fogging my brain.
The government was trying to fog the real issues before the election.
a fogbound airport
fogbound passengers
She spent hours fogbound in Brussels.
He sounds like such an old fogey!
foggy conditions
a foggy road
'Do you know where she is?' 'Sorry, I haven't the foggiest.'
He's got a voice like a foghorn (= a loud unpleasant voice).
We have to tolerate each other's little foibles.
(BrE) aluminium foil
(NAmE) aluminum foil
The chocolates are individually wrapped in gold foil.
The pale walls provide a perfect foil for the furniture.
to foil a plan/crime/plot
Customs officials foiled an attempt to smuggle the paintings out of the country.
They were foiled in their attempt to smuggle the paintings.
dense green foliage
The title for her novel was foisted on her by the publishers.
He folded the map up and put it in his pocket.
First, fold the paper in half/in two.
The blankets had been folded down.
a pile of neatly folded clothes
The bird folded its wings.
The bed can be folded away during the day.
The table folds up when not in use.
(figurative) When she heard the news, her legs just folded under her (= she fell).
The ironing board folds flat for easy storage.
She gently folded the baby in a blanket.
She folded a blanket around the baby.
She kept her hands folded in her lap.
Fold in the beaten egg whites.
the folds of her dress
loose folds of skin
He called on former Republican voters to return to the fold.
a folding chair
a foldaway bed
foliar colour
ordinary working-class folk
I'd like a job working with old folk or kids.
the folks back home (= from the place where you come from)
Well, folks, what are we going to do today?
How are your folks?
country folk
townsfolk
farming folk
a folk festival/concert
folk art
a folk museum
folk wisdom
Garlic is widely used in Chinese folk medicine.
Folk etymology has created the cheeseburger and the beanburger, but the first hamburgers were in fact named after the city of Hamburg.
Irish/Indian folklore
The story rapidly became part of family folklore.
They wanted the store to have a folksy small-town image.
a folksy ballad
an act of sheer folly
Giving up a secure job seems to be the height of folly.
It would be folly to turn the offer down.
the follies of youth
He followed her into the house.
Follow me please. I'll show you the way.
I think we're being followed.
(figurative) She followed her mother into the medical profession.
Wherever she led, they followed.
Sam walked in, with the rest of the boys following closely behind.
The first two classes are followed by a break of ten minutes.
I remember little of the days that followed the accident.
A period of unrest followed the president's resignation.
A detailed news report will follow shortly.
There followed a short silence.
The opening hours are as follows …
A new proposal followed on from the discussions.
Follow your treatment with plenty of rest.
They follow up their March show with four UK dates next month.
I don't see how that follows from what you've just said.
If a = b and b = c it follows that a = c.
The main course was followed by fresh fruit.
I'll have soup and fish to follow.
Follow this road until you get to the school, then turn left.
The lane follows the edge of a wood for about a mile.
to follow a diet/recipe
He has trouble following simple instructions.
Why didn't you follow my advice?
They followed the teachings of Buddha.
He always followed the latest fashions (= dressed in fashionable clothes).
I don't want you to follow my example and rush into marriage.
The movie follows the book faithfully.
Sorry, I don't follow.
Sorry, I don't follow you.
The plot is almost impossible to follow.
The children were following every word of the story intently.
Her eyes followed him everywhere (= she was looking at him all the time).
Have you been following the basketball championships?
Millions of people followed the trial on TV.
I don't follow many celebrities on Twitter any more.
The novel follows the fortunes of a village community in Scotland.
The day followed the usual pattern.
She works in television, following in her father's footsteps.
The garage is a mile ahead up the hill—just follow your nose.
Will you stop following me around!
You go to the beach with the kids and I'll follow on when I've finished work.
You should follow up your phone call with an email or a letter.
The police are following up several leads after their TV appeal for information.
The project could fail if there is inadequate follow-through.
The book is a follow-up to her excellent television series.
a follow-up study
I often use Twitter recommendations to select new followees.
the followers of Mahatma Gandhi
keen followers of football
a follower of fashion
She is a leader, not a follower.
a celebrity with thousands of followers on Twitter
the following afternoon/month/year/week
They arrived on Monday evening and we got there the following day.
Answer the following questions.
The band has a huge following in Italy.
The following is a summary of events.
The following have been chosen to take part: Watts, Hodges and Lennox.
He took charge of the family business following his father's death.
They accused him of fomenting political unrest.
Over the years, I have grown quite fond of her.
fond of music/cooking
We had grown fond of the house and didn't want to leave.
Sheila's very fond of telling other people what to do.
He's rather too fond of the sound of his own voice (= he talks too much).
a fond look/embrace/farewell
I have very fond memories of my time in Spain (= I remember it with affection and pleasure).
I waited all day in the fond hope that she would change her mind.
He will be remembered by the staff with great fondness.
a fondness for animals
fondant icing
He looked at her fondly.
I fondly remember my first job as a reporter.
I fondly imagined that you cared for me.
the International Phonetic Alphabet
a phonetic symbol/transcription
Spanish spelling is phonetic, unlike English spelling.
a shortage of food/food shortages
the food industry
Do you like Italian food?
frozen foods
a can of dog food (= for a dog to eat)
He's off his food (= he does not want to eat anything).
Insects are fairly low down (on) the food chain.
We keep food miles to a minimum by sourcing products locally.
basic foodstuffs
Don't be such a fool!
I felt a fool when I realized my mistake.
He told me he was an actor and I was fool enough to believe him.
rhubarb fool
Can't you see she's making a fool of you?
I made a complete fool of myself in front of everyone!
'He's not an easy person to live with.' 'More fool her for marrying him!'
You don't fool me!
She certainly had me fooled —I really believed her!
You're fooling yourself if you think none of this will affect you.
Don't be fooled into thinking they're going to change anything.
Stop fooling around and sit down!
If you fool about with matches, you'll end up getting burned.
'I'm trying as hard as I can!' 'You could have fooled me!'
She's been fooling around with a married man.
That was a damn fool thing to do!
He sent me on a fool's errand.
It would be foolhardy to sail in weather like this.
She's just a vain, foolish woman.
I was foolish enough to believe what Jeff told me.
The accident was my fault— it would be foolish to pretend otherwise.
How could she have been so foolish as to fall in love with him?
a foolish idea/dream/mistake
It was a very foolish thing to do.
I felt foolish and a failure.
He's afraid of looking foolish in front of his friends.
We foolishly thought that everyone would speak English.
Foolishly, I allowed myself to be persuaded to enter the contest.
Jenny had to laugh at her own foolishness.
This recipe is foolproof—it works every time.
My feet are aching.
to get/rise to your feet (= stand up)
I've been on my feet (= standing or walking around) all day.
We came on foot (= we walked).
walking around the house in bare feet (= not wearing shoes or socks)
Please wipe your feet (= your shoes) on the mat.
a foot pump (= operated using your foot, not your hand)
a foot passenger (= one who travels on a ferry without a car)
She was too weak to stand.
Stand still when I'm talking to you!
We stood talking for a few minutes.
He stood and looked out to sea.
Please don't get up!
Stand up straight!
Everyone would stand up when the teacher entered the classroom.
Would you all rise, please, to welcome our visiting speaker.
I helped her to get to her feet.
I've been on my feet all day.
bare-footed
four-footed
a left-footed shot into the corner
the foot of the stairs/page/mountain
The nurse hung a chart at the foot of the bed (= the part of the bed where your feet normally are when you are lying in it).
a 6-foot high wall
We're flying at 35 000 feet.
'How tall are you?' 'Five foot nine' (= five feet and nine inches).
His boat is an eighteen-footer.
For ˈmen / may ˈcome / and ˈmen / may ˈgo.
I seem to have got off on the wrong foot with the new boss.
At that time he was a young actor, just getting his feet wet.
Sue's back on her feet again after her operation.
The new chairman hopes to get the company back on its feet within six months.
After a hard day's work, it's nice to get home and put your feet up.
You've got to put your foot down and make him stop seeing her.
She put her foot down and roared past them.
I really put my foot in it with Ella—I didn't know she'd split up with Tom.
In the last two games he has hardly put a foot wrong.
the first man to set foot on the moon
I vowed never to set foot in the place again.
His business sense helped set the club on its feet again.
When his parents died he had to learn to stand on his own two feet.
I don't want you kids under my feet while I'm cooking.
We were covered from head to foot in mud.
We can't wait to hear the patter of tiny feet.
Shoppers voted with their feet and avoided the store.
Come and sit down and take the weight off your feet for a while.
old film footage of the moon landing
to play football
a football match/team/stadium
Health care should not become a political football.
They've had a big win on the football pools.
footballing skills
a website footer
a campaign to increase footfall
the foothills of the Himalayas
The company is eager to gain a foothold in Europe.
She lost her footing (= she slipped or lost her balance) and fell backwards into the water.
I slipped and struggled to regain my footing.
The company is now on a sound financial footing.
The country has been on a war footing (= prepared for war) since March.
The two groups must meet on an equal footing.
They were demanding to be treated on the same footing as the rest of the teachers.
Bert was a footloose, unemployed actor.
Ah, I was still footloose and fancy-free (= free to enjoy myself) in those days.
a public footpath
footprints in the sand
muddy footprints on the kitchen floor
the sound of footsteps on the stairs
footsteps in the snow
Be sure to wear the correct footwear to prevent injuries to your feet.
It was going to take some deft political footwork to save the situation.
There's a letter for you.
It's a book for children.
We got a new table for the dining room.
This is the place for me (= I like it very much).
What can I do for you (= how can I help you)?
Can you translate this letter for me?
I took her classes for her while she was sick.
soldiers fighting for their country
They are anxious for her safety.
Fortunately for us, the weather changed.
I am speaking for everyone in this department.
She's working for IBM.
Shaking your head for 'No' is not universal.
Are you for or against the proposal?
They voted for independence in a referendum.
There's a strong case for postponing the exam.
I'm all for people having fun.
a machine for slicing bread
Let's go for a walk.
Are you learning English for pleasure or for your work?
What did you do that for (= Why did you do that)?
The town is famous for its cathedral.
She gave me a watch for my birthday.
He got an award for bravery.
I couldn't speak for laughing.
He came to me for advice.
For more information, call this number.
There were over fifty applicants for the job.
Copies are available for two dollars each.
I'll swap these two bottles for that one.
The weather was warm for the time of year.
She's tall for her age.
That's too much responsibility for a child.
You'll feel better for a good night's sleep.
This room would look more cheerful for a spot of paint.
Is this the bus for Chicago?
She knew she was destined for a great future.
I'm going away for a few days.
That's all the news there is for now.
an appointment for May 12
We're invited for 7.30.
I'm warning you for the last time—stop talking!
The road went on for miles and miles.
It's useless for us to continue.
There's no need for you to go.
For her to have survived such an ordeal was remarkable.
The box is too heavy for me to lift.
Is it clear enough for you to read?
It's not for me to say why he left.
How to spend the money is for you to decide.
She might at least have called to explain. There's gratitude for you.
We listened eagerly, for he brought news of our families.
I believed her—for surely she would not lie to me.
There's still another ten minutes of the game to go, but for practical purposes it's already over.
Will you be away for long?
I'm sorry I haven't written to you for so long.
The project failed for want of financial backing.
We call our music 'postmodern' for the want of a better word.
I'm not working there—for a start, it's too far to travel.
He was rowing for all he was worth.
She is milking her success for all it's worth.
She behaved for all the world as if nothing unusual had happened.
He looked for all the world like a schoolboy caught stealing apples.
She could be dead for all I know.
Do be careful, for goodness' sake.
Oh, for heaven's sake!
For pity's sake, help me!
This time she's leaving for good (= she will never return).
Use 50g of rice per person and an extra spoonful for good measure.
What would you do, for instance, if you found a member of staff stealing?
Is it yours for keeps or does he want it back?
Take something blue. It's for luck.
I hit him once more for luck.
For my money, he's one of the greatest comedians of all time.
She's always trying to get something for nothing.
All that preparation was for nothing because the visit was cancelled.
I, for one, would prefer to postpone the meeting.
'Why don't you get a car?' 'Well, for one thing, I can't drive!'
This is not a fire drill—it's for real.
(NAmE) He managed to convince voters that he was for real.
I'm sorry, it's not for sale.
They've put their house up for sale.
an increase in the number of stolen vehicles being offered for sale
a 'for sale' sign
They stayed together for the sake of the children.
You can do it. Please, for my sake.
I hope you're right, for all our sakes (= because this is important for all of us).
These items are just for show—they're not for sale.
I believe in education for its own sake.
art for art's sake
No one knows for sure what happened.
I think he'll be back on Monday, but I can't say for sure.
One thing is for sure —it's not going to be easy.
(NAmE) 'Will you be there?' 'For sure.'
I didn't like it much. Nor did the kids, for that matter.
I cannot for the life of me imagine why they want to leave.
For the love of God, tell me what he said!
I'm changing my email address but for the meantime you can use the old one.
We need some new curtains, but these will do for the meanwhile.
This house is big enough for the moment, but we'll have to move if we have children.
The contributors are, for the most part, professional scientists.
The book has some interesting passages about the author's childhood. For the rest, it is extremely dull.
The translation sacrifices naturalness for the sake of accuracy.
She gave up smoking for the sake of her health.
Don't get married just for the sake of it.
Let's suppose, for the sake of argument (= in order to have a discussion), that interest rates went up by 2%.
You can leave your suitcase here for the time being.
I'd kill him for two pins.
I prefer this colour, for what it's worth.
For your information, I don't even have a car.
The town was too crowded for my liking.
I told her what I thought and got a mouthful of abuse for my pains!
Country music was undoubtedly one of the forerunners of rock and roll.
The statue will remain in the museum for the foreseeable future.
It's unlikely that the hospital will be closed in the foreseeable future (= soon).
Television is now an important forum for political debate.
an Internet forum
to hold an international forum on drug abuse
forage crops/grass
the company's first foray into the computer market
weekend shopping forays to France
He wanted to answer back, but he forbore from doing so.
She forbore to ask any further questions.
Thank you for being so forbearing.
He forbade them from mentioning the subject again.
Her father forbade the marriage.
You are all forbidden to leave.
My doctor has forbidden me sugar.
She knew her mother would forbid her going.
I'm sorry, smoking isn't allowed. / You're not allowed to smoke here.
Would you mind not talking during the music?
Could I ask you not to use your phone here, please?
I'm afraid I have to ask you not to take pictures here.
Lack of space forbids further treatment of the topic here.
'Maybe you'll end up as a lawyer, like me.' 'God forbid!'
Photography is strictly forbidden in the museum.
The conversation was in danger of wandering into forbidden territory (= topics that they were not allowed to talk about).
a forbidding appearance/look/manner
The house looked dark and forbidding.
sales forecasts
The forecast said there would be sunny intervals and showers.
Experts are forecasting a recovery in the economy.
Snow is forecast for tomorrow.
Temperatures were forecast to reach 40°C.
The report forecasts that prices will rise by 3% next month.
It is difficult to forecast how the markets will react.
The release of the hostages could not be achieved without the use of force.
The rioters were taken away by force.
The ultimatum contained the threat of military force.
We will achieve much more by persuasion than by brute force.
the force of the blow/explosion/collision
The shopping centre took the full force of the blast.
They realized the force of her argument.
He controlled himself by sheer force of will.
She spoke with force and deliberation.
economic/market forces
the forces of good/evil
Ron is the driving force (= the person who has the most influence) behind the project.
She's a force to be reckoned with (= a person who has a lot of power and influence and should therefore be treated seriously).
The expansion of higher education should be a powerful force for change.
These guidelines do not have the force of law.
The court ruled that these standards have force in English law.
a member of the sales force
A large proportion of the labour force (= all the people who work in a particular company, area, etc.) is unskilled.
a member of the security forces
rebel/government forces
a peace-keeping force
allied forces
strategic nuclear forces
He joined the force twenty years ago.
The moon exerts a force on the earth.
the force of gravity
magnetic/centrifugal force
a force 9 gale
a gale force wind
Protesters turned out in force.
The new regulations are now in force.
The President was forced into resigning.
The President was forced to resign.
I was forced to take a taxi because the last bus had left.
She forced herself to be polite to them.
Ill health forced him into early retirement.
He didn't force me—I wanted to go.
(informal, humorous) 'I shouldn't really have any more.' 'Go on—force yourself!'
Public pressure managed to force a change in the government's position.
to force a lock/window/door (= to break it open using force)
to force an entry (= to enter a building using force)
She forced her way through the crowd of reporters.
He tried to force a copy of his book into my hand.
The door had been forced open.
He was in a position where he had to force a decision.
Building a new road here will force house prices down.
She managed to force a smile.
forced rhubarb
(figurative) It is unwise to force a child's talent.
The demonstrations have succeeded in forcing the pace of change.
She swallowed hard and forced back her tears.
to force your attentions/opinions/company on sb
I managed to force the truth out of him.
forced relocation to a job in another city
a forced sale of his property
She said she was enjoying herself but her smile was forced.
The mines were manned by forced labour from conquered countries.
to make a forced landing
a forceful woman/speaker
a forceful personality
a forceful argument/speech
the forceful suppression of minorities
He argued his case forcefully.
a pair of forceps
a forceps delivery (= a birth in which the baby is delivered with the help of forceps )
forcible repatriation
The police checked all windows and doors for signs of forcible entry.
Supporters were forcibly removed from the court.
It struck me forcibly how honest he'd been.
foreword
foretell
the foreground of the picture
She had a sense of foreboding that the news would be bad.
He knew from her face that his forebodings had been justified.
a foreboding feeling that something was wrong
a weather forecaster
an economic forecaster
Any attempt to construct an ideal society is foredoomed to failure.
If you cancel your flight, you will forfeit your deposit.
He has forfeited his right to be taken seriously.
the forfeiture of property
I'd completely forgotten about the money he owed me.
Before I forget, there was a call from Italy for you.
I never forget a face.
Who could forget his speech at last year's party?
She keeps forgetting (that) I'm not a child any more.
I was forgetting (= I had forgotten) (that) you've been here before.
I've forgotten where they live exactly.
I forget how much they paid for it.
I'll never forget hearing this piece of music for the first time.
It should not be forgotten that people used to get much more exercise.
'Why weren't you at the meeting?' 'Sorry—I forgot.'
Take care, and don't forget to write.
I forgot to ask him for his address.
I forgot my purse (= I did not remember to bring it).
'Hey, don't forget me!' (= don't leave without me)
Aren't you forgetting something? (= I think you have forgotten to do sth)
I've left my book at home.
Try to forget about what happened.
Could you possibly forget about work for five minutes?
Forget him!
Let's forget our differences and be friends.
Forget (that) I said anything!
If I lose this job, we can forget about buying a new car.
'I was hoping you might be able to lend me the money.' 'You can forget that!'
I'm forgetting myself. I haven't offered you a drink yet!
'I still owe you for lunch yesterday.' 'Forget it.'
'Now, what were you saying about John?' 'Forget it, it doesn't matter.'
'Any chance of you helping out here?' 'Forget it, I've got too much to do.'
Just forget it, will you!
I share the house with Jim, Ian and Sam, not forgetting Spike, the dog.
I'll never forgive her for what she did.
I'd never forgive myself if she heard the truth from someone else.
I can't forgive that type of behaviour.
We all have to learn to forgive.
She'd forgive him anything.
Forgive me, but I don't see that any of this concerns me.
Forgive me for interrupting, but I really don't agree with that.
Forgive my ignorance, but what exactly does the company do?
Forgive my interrupting but I really don't agree with that.
The government has agreed to forgive a large part of the debt.
Looking at the crowds out shopping, you could be forgiven for thinking that everyone has plenty of money.
the foregoing discussion
The figure in the foreground is the artist's mother.
Inflation and interest rates will be very much in the foreground of their election campaign.
The play foregrounds the relationship between father and daughter.
She has a strong forehand.
a forehand volley
He served to his opponent's forehand.
a foreign accent/language/student
a foreign-owned company
foreign holidays
You could tell she was foreign by the way she dressed.
foreign affairs/news/policy/trade
foreign aid
a foreign correspondent (= one who reports on foreign countries in newspapers or on television)
Dishonesty is foreign to his nature.
Tears help to protect the eye from potentially harmful foreign bodies.
The euro fell on the foreign exchanges yesterday.
our largest source of foreign exchange
The fact that I was a foreigner was a big disadvantage.
I have always been regarded as a foreigner by the local folk.
Lee's mistakes accentuate his foreignness.
the foreignness of the past
She looked so forlorn, standing there in the rain.
Empty houses quickly take on a forlorn look.
She waited in the forlorn hope that he would one day come back to her.
His father smiled weakly in a forlorn attempt to reassure him that everything was all right.
the world's foremost authority on the subject
The Prime Minister was foremost among those who condemned the violence.
This question has been foremost in our minds recently.
Please check that your surname and forenames have been correctly entered.
forensic evidence/medicine/science/tests
the forensic laboratory
a forensic pathologist
He had made it clear to his wife that he would never forsake her.
She forsook the glamour of the city and went to live in the wilds of Scotland.
We do not foresee any problems.
The extent of the damage could not have been foreseen.
No one could have foreseen (that) things would turn out this way.
It is impossible to foresee how life will work out.
I just didn't foresee that happening.
foreseeable risks/consequences
a foreshortened education
She had had the foresight to prepare herself financially in case of an accident.
a tropical forest
a forest fire
Thousands of hectares of forest are destroyed each year.
a forest of television aerials
Try to anticipate what your child will do and forestall problems.
thickly forested hills
The province is heavily forested and sparsely populated.
The group forswears all worldly possessions.
The country has not forsworn the use of chemical weapons.
They were unaware that the street violence was just a foretaste of what was to come.
to foretell the future
The witch foretold that she would marry a prince.
None of us can foretell what lies ahead.
Some forethought and preparation are necessary before you embark on the project.
I'll love you forever!
After her death, their lives changed forever.
Just keep telling yourself that it won't last forever.
It takes her forever to get dressed.
She's forever going on about how poor they are.
The commander had been forewarned of the attack.
Heaven forfend that students are encouraged to think!
a move to forge new links between management and workers
Strategic alliances are being forged with major European companies.
She forged a new career in the music business.
to forge a passport/banknote/cheque
He's getting good at forging his mother's signature.
swords forged from steel
He forged through the crowds to the front of the stage.
She forged into the lead (= in a competition, race, etc.).
The company is forging ahead with its plans for expansion.
Experts are dismissing claims that the painting is a forgery.
She has become very forgetful in recent years.
an instantly forgettable tune
His rudeness was forgivable in the circumstances.
to pray for God's forgiveness
the forgiveness of sins
He begged forgiveness for what he had done.
She had not inherited her mother's forgiving nature.
The public was more forgiving of the president's difficulties than the press and fellow politicians.
No one was prepared to forgo their lunch hour to attend the meeting.
to eat with a knife and fork
Shortly before dusk they reached a fork and took the left-hand track.
Take the right fork.
a jagged fork of lightning
The path forks at the bottom of the hill.
The road forks right after the bridge.
Fork right after the bridge.
Clear the soil of weeds and fork in plenty of compost.
Why fork out for a taxi when there's a perfectly good bus service?
We've forked out a small fortune on their education.
a bird with a forked tail
the forked tongue of a snake
forms of transport/government/energy
one of the most common forms of cancer
all the millions of different life forms on the planet today
The disease can take several different forms.
Help in the form of money will be very welcome.
Help arrived in the form of two police officers.
The training programme takes the form of a series of workshops.
Most political questions involve morality in some form or other.
We need to come to some form of agreement.
I'm opposed to censorship in any shape or form.
This dictionary is also available in electronic form.
an application/entry/order form
(especially BrE) to fill in a form
(especially NAmE) to fill out a form
I filled in/out a form on their website.
to complete a form
(BrE) a booking form
(NAmE) a reservation form
her slender form
The human form has changed little over the last 30 000 years.
They made out a shadowy form in front of them.
In a novel, form and content are equally important.
After six months' training the whole team is in superb form.
I really need to get back in form.
The horse was clearly out of form.
Midfielder Elliott has shown disappointing form recently.
On current/present form the party is heading for another election victory.
She signalled her return to form with a convincing victory.
He's right on form (= performing well) as a crazy science teacher in his latest movie.
The whole team was on good form and deserved the win.
She was in great form (= happy and cheerful and full of energy) at the wedding party.
What's the form when you apply for a research grant?
conventional social forms
True to form (= as he usually does) he arrived an hour late.
Partners of employees are invited as a matter of form.
the infinitive form of the verb
Who's your form teacher?
a third-former
In her body a new life was taking form.
I don't approve of violence in any shape or form.
Flowers appeared, but fruits failed to form.
Storm clouds are forming on the horizon.
These hills were formed by glaciation.
A plan formed in my head.
I formed many close friendships at college.
I didn't see enough of the play to form an opinion about it.
Bend the wire so that it forms a 'V'.
Games can help children learn to form letters.
Do you know how to form the past tense?
Form the dough into balls with your hands.
The chain is formed from 136 links.
to form a line/queue/circle
First get students to form groups of four.
Queues were already forming outside the theatre.
The teams formed up into lines.
The trees form a natural protection from the sun's rays.
The castle forms the focal point of the city.
The survey formed part of a larger programme of research.
These drawings will form the basis of the exhibition.
They hope to form the new government.
He formed a band with some friends from school.
a newly-formed political party
The band formed in 2007.
Positive and negative experiences form a child's character.
formal evening dress
The dinner was a formal affair.
He kept the tone of the letter formal and businesslike.
She has a very formal manner, which can seem unfriendly.
formal legal processes
to make a formal apology/complaint/request
Formal diplomatic relations between the two countries were re-established in December.
It is time to put these arrangements on a slightly more formal basis.
He has no formal teaching qualifications.
Young children are beginning their formal education sometimes as early as four years old.
Getting approval for the plan is a purely formal matter; nobody will seriously oppose it.
Critics have concentrated too much on the formal elements of her poetry, without really looking at what it is saying.
delightful formal gardens, with terraced lawns and an avenue of trees
'How do you do?' she said formally.
The accounts were formally approved by the board.
Although not formally trained as an art historian, he is widely respected for his knowledge of the period.
They decided to formalize their relationship by getting married.
The college has a highly formalized system of assessment.
formalist theory
to go through all the formalities necessary in order to get a gun licence
Let's skip the formalities and get down to business.
He already knows he has the job so the interview is a mere formality.
Different levels of formality are appropriate in different situations.
She greeted him with stiff formality.
The format of the new quiz show has proved popular.
They've brought out the magazine in a new format.
the formation of a new government
evidence of recent star formation in the galaxy
rock formations
aircraft flying in formation
formation flying
The team usually plays in a 4-4-2 formation.
the formative years of childhood
in former times
This beautiful old building has been restored to its former glory.
former South African president Nelson Mandela
my former boss/colleague/wife
the countries of the former Soviet Union
The former option would be much more sensible.
He had to choose between giving up his job and giving up his principles. He chose the former.
However, the former are excluded.
opinion formers and policy makers
Namibia, formerly known as South West Africa
I learnt that the house had formerly been an inn.
John Marsh, formerly of London Road, Leicester, now living in France
In debate he was a formidable opponent.
She has a formidable list of qualifications.
The two players together make a formidable combination.
The task was a formidable one.
They had to overcome formidable obstacles.
He now has the chance to prove himself in a formidably difficult role.
She's formidably intelligent.
formless dreams
This formula is used to calculate the area of a circle.
CO is the formula for carbon monoxide.
They're trying to work out a peace formula acceptable to both sides in the dispute.
There's no magic formula for a perfect marriage.
the secret formula for the blending of the whisky
Formula One™ racing
legal formulae
The minister keeps coming out with the same tired formulas.
Traditional stories make use of formulaic expressions like 'Once upon a time…'.
to formulate a policy/theory/plan/proposal
The compost is specially formulated for pot plants.
This new kitchen cleaner is formulated to cut through grease and dirt.
She has lots of good ideas, but she has difficulty formulating them.
the formulation of new policies
Fort Drum
Why not have a day off? I'll hold the fort for you.
Languages were never my forte.
They set forth at dawn.
Huge chimneys belched forth smoke and grime.
Water gushed forth from a hole in the rock.
the forthcoming elections
a list of forthcoming books
the band's forthcoming UK tour
Financial support was not forthcoming.
She's never very forthcoming about her plans.
a woman of forthright views
The agreement between us is terminated forthwith.
the ramparts and fortifications of the Old Town
plans for the fortification of the city
a fortified town
He fortified himself against the cold with a hot drink.
The news merely fortified their determination.
Sherry is fortified wine (= wine with extra alcohol added).
cereal fortified with extra vitamins
a fortnight's holiday
a fortnight ago
in a fortnight's time
He's had three accidents in the past fortnight.
Meetings take place at fortnightly intervals.
The committee meets fortnightly.
a fortress town enclosed by four miles of ramparts
Fear of terrorist attack has turned the conference centre into a fortress.
I have been fortunate enough to visit many parts of the world as a lecturer.
I was fortunate in having a good teacher.
Remember those less fortunate than yourselves.
It was very fortunate for him that I arrived on time.
I was late, but fortunately the meeting hadn't started.
Fortunately for him, he was very soon offered another job.
I have had the good fortune to work with some brilliant directors.
By a stroke of fortune he found work almost immediately.
Fortune smiled on me (= I had good luck).
He made a fortune in real estate.
She inherited a share of the family fortune.
A car like that costs a small fortune.
You don't have to spend a fortune to give your family tasty, healthy meals.
She is hoping her US debut will be the first step on the road to fame and fortune.
That ring must be worth a fortune.
the changing fortunes of the film industry
the fortunes of war
a reversal of fortune(s)
She can tell your fortune by looking at the lines on your hand.
I'll feel much better when I've had forty winks.
She leaned forward and kissed him on the cheek.
He took two steps forward.
They ran forward to welcome her.
We consider this agreement to be an important step forward.
Cutting our costs is the only way forward.
We are not getting any further forward with the discussion.
The project will go forward (= continue) as planned.
Looking forward, we hope to expand our operations in several of our overseas branches.
The next scene takes the story forward five years.
(old use) from this day forward
It was decided to bring the meeting forward two weeks.
The main cabin is situated forward of (= in front of) the mast.
We have a very solid financial position going forward.
The door opened, blocking his forward movement.
a forward pass (= in a sports game)
the forward cabins
A bolt may have fallen off the plane's forward door.
the forward movement of history
A little forward planning at the outset can save you a lot of expense.
The plans are still no further forward than they were last month.
I hope you don't think I'm being too forward.
We will be forwarding our new catalogue to you next week.
We will be forwarding you our new catalogue next week.
to forward a request/complaint/proposal
Could you forward any mail to us in New York?
I put 'please forward' on the envelope.
He saw the assignment as a way to forward his career.
He spent ages fossicking through the documents.
fossils over two million years old
fossilized bones
The club's aim is to foster better relations within the community.
They have fostered over 60 children during the past ten years.
We couldn't adopt a child, so we decided to foster.
a foster mother/father/family
foster parents
a foster child
a foster home
foster care
to found a club/company
Her family founded the college in 1895.
The town was founded by English settlers in 1790.
Their marriage was founded on love and mutual respect.
foul air/breath
a foul-smelling prison
She's in a foul mood.
His boss has a foul temper.
This tastes foul.
foul language
I'm sick of her foul mouth (= habit of swearing).
He called her the foulest names imaginable.
a foul night
a foul crime/murder
He swore foully.
She had been foully murdered during the night.
The air was heavy with the stink of damp and foulness.
He was fouled inside the penalty area.
Do not permit your dog to foul the grass.
The rope fouled the propeller.
A rope fouled up (= became twisted) as we pulled the sail down.
I've fouled up badly again, haven't I?
It was a clear foul by Ford on the goalkeeper.
(NAmE) to hit a foul (= in baseball, a ball that is too far left or right, outside the lines that mark the side of the field)
Police immediately began an investigation, but did not suspect foul play (= did not suspect that the person had been murdered).
a foul-mouthed racist
foundry workers
The builders are now beginning to lay the foundations of the new school.
The explosion shook the foundations of the houses nearby.
The rumour is totally without foundation (= not based on any facts).
These stories have no foundation (= are not based on any facts).
The money will go to the San Francisco AIDS Foundation.
The organization has grown enormously since its foundation in 1955.
This issue has shaken the foundations of French politics.
to lay the foundation stone of the new museum
the founder and president of the company
The peace talks foundered on a basic lack of trust.
Our boat foundered on a reef.
She treats him as if he were the fount of all knowledge.
The amplifier exploded in a fountain of sparks.
Tourism is a fountain of wealth for the city.
to make up a four at tennis
a coach and four (= four horses)
We were crawling around on all fours.
Don't let this go further than these four walls (= Don't tell anyone else who is not in the room now).
I stand four-square with the President on this issue.
a four-star hotel
a four-star general
a car with four-wheel drive
We rented a four-wheel drive to get around the island.
Can you make up a foursome for tennis tomorrow?
fowl such as turkeys and ducks
He's a wily old fox.
The last question foxed even our panel of experts.
to go fox hunting
a ban on fox hunts
I must admit I'm completely foxed.
Fr (Paul) O'Connor
Only a small fraction of a bank's total deposits will be withdrawn at any one time.
She hesitated for the merest fraction of a second.
Only a fraction of cars in the UK use leaded petrol.
A tiny fraction of the population never vote/votes.
a fractional decline in earnings
a fractional equation
He was just fractionally ahead at the finishing line.
Children often get fractious and tearful when tired.
The six fractious republics are demanding autonomy.
a fracture of the leg/skull
a compound/simple fracture (= one in which the broken bone comes/does not come through the skin)
Old people's bones are more prone to fracture.
His leg fractured in two places.
She fell and fractured her skull.
a fractured pipeline
Many people predicted that the party would fracture and split.
The company was fractured into several smaller groups.
He suffered a badly fractured arm.
(figurative) They spoke a sort of fractured German.
Some soldiers were so disillusioned that they resorted to fragging their commanders.
In order to improve their scores, players must complete objectives and frag enemies.
I keep getting fragged every time I reach the bunker.
When players are fragged, any reward points that they've earned are lost.
fragile china/glass/bones
a fragile alliance/ceasefire/relationship
The economy remains extremely fragile.
fragile beauty
The woman's fragile face broke into a smile.
Her father is now 86 and in fragile health.
(BrE, informal) I'm feeling a bit fragile after last night (= not well, perhaps because of drinking too much alcohol).
the fragility of the human body
Police found fragments of glass near the scene.
The shattered vase lay in fragments on the floor.
I overheard a fragment of their conversation.
the fragmentation of the country into small independent states
a fragmented society
There is only fragmentary evidence to support this theory.
The bath oil comes in various fragrances.
an exciting new fragrance from Dior
fragrant herbs/flowers/oils
The air was fragrant with scents from the sea and the hills.
Mother was becoming too frail to live alone.
the frail stems of the flowers
Human nature is frail.
Increasing frailty meant that she was more and more confined to bed.
human frailty
the frailties of human nature
a picture frame
aluminium window frames
the frame of an aircraft/a car/a bicycle
gold-rimmed frames
to have a small/slender/large frame
In this course we hope to look at literature in the frame of its social and historical context.
The photograph had been framed.
Her blonde hair framed her face.
He stood there, head back, framed against the blue sky.
He says he was framed.
You'll have to be careful how you frame the question.
a framed photograph
a timber-framed house (= with a supporting structure of wood)
We'll discuss this when you're in a better frame of mind.
We need to establish a legal framework for the protection of the environment.
the basic framework of society
a franchise agreement/company
a catering/rail franchise
In the reorganization, Southern Television lost their franchise.
to operate a business under franchise
They operate franchises in London and Paris.
a burger franchise
universal adult franchise
Catering has been franchised (out) to a private company.
franchised restaurants
a Franciscan monk
the Franco-Prussian War
Francophile
Canadian francophones
a full and frank discussion
a frank admission of guilt
He was very frank about his relationship with the actress.
To be frank with you, I think your son has little chance of passing the exam.
They outlined their aims with disarming frankness.
He spoke frankly about the ordeal.
They frankly admitted their responsibility.
Frankly, I couldn't care less what happens to him.
Quite frankly, I'm not surprised you failed.
a frantic dash/search/struggle
They made frantic attempts to revive him.
Things are frantic in the office right now.
frantic with worry
Let's go back. Your parents must be getting frantic by now.
The children are driving me frantic (= making me very annoyed).
They worked frantically to finish on time.
coffee frappé
a frat boy (= a member of a fraternity )
a fraternal organization/society
fraternal rivalry
She was accused of fraternizing with the enemy.
members of the medical/banking/racing, etc. fraternity
the ideals of liberty, equality and fraternity
to be engaged in a fratricidal struggle
She was charged with credit card fraud.
property that has been obtained by fraud
a $100 million fraud
He's nothing but a liar and a fraud.
She felt a fraud accepting their sympathy (= because she was not really sad).
fraudulent advertising
fraudulent insurance claims
a situation fraught with danger/difficulty/problems
She looked/sounded fraught.
There was a fraught silence.
Things are as fraught as ever in the office.
The cuffs of his shirt were fraying.
This material frays easily.
It was fashionable to fray the bottoms of your jeans.
As the debate went on, tempers began to fray.
frayed denim shorts
Tempers were getting very frayed.
They were ready for the fray.
to enter/join the fray
At 71, he has now retired from the political fray.
They finally arrived home, hot and frazzled.
a health/fitness/jazz, etc. freak
She was treated like a freak because she didn't want children.
He's going out with a real freak.
By some freak of fate they all escaped without injury.
a freak accident/storm/occurrence
freak weather conditions
My parents really freaked when they saw my hair.
Snakes really freak me out.
freakish weather/behaviour
a freckled face/schoolgirl
I have no ambitions other than to have a happy life and be free.
Students have a free choice of courses in their final year.
You are free to come and go as you please.
(informal) 'Can I use the phone?' 'Please, feel free (= of course you can use it).'
A true democracy complete with free speech and a free press was called for.
the country's first free election
They gave me free access to all the files.
He walked out of jail a free man.
The researchers set the birds free.
Admission is free.
free samples/tickets/advice
We're offering a fabulous free gift with each copy you buy.
You can't expect people to work for free (= without payment).
Ensure there is a free flow of air around the machine.
free from difficulty/doubt/fear
free from artificial colours and flavourings
It was several weeks before he was completely free of pain.
virtually fat-free yogurt
tax-free earnings
a trouble-free life
Pull gently on the free end of the rope.
They had to be cut free from their car after the accident.
She finally managed to pull herself free.
He held out his free hand and I took it.
Is this seat free?
If Sarah is free for lunch I'll take her out.
Keep Friday night free for my party.
What do you like to do in your free time (= when you are not working)?
He's too free with his opinions.
I was given a free hand in designing the syllabus.
By the end of May nearly 100 of an estimated 2 000 political prisoners had been freed.
The hijackers agreed to free a further ten hostages.
Three people were freed from the wreckage.
She struggled to free herself.
These exercises help free the body of tension.
The police are determined to free the town of violent crime.
The centre aims to free young people from dependency on drugs.
We freed time each week for a project meeting.
The government has promised to free up more resources for education.
Winning the prize freed him to paint full-time.
Children under five travel free.
The wagon broke free from the train.
a free fall display
Share prices have gone into free fall.
The plural 's' is not a free form, as it must always be attached to a noun.
to take a free kick
She was a supporter of the free market economy.
She left of her own free will.
a free-floating exchange rate
The lowering of trade barriers has led to a free-for-all among exporters.
a free-form jazz improvisation
free-range chickens
free-range eggs
a free-standing sculpture
a free-standing adult education service
The company provides more than 20 free-to-air channels.
He took all the freebies that were on offer.
a freebie holiday
freedom of speech/thought/expression/worship
a threat to press/academic, etc. freedom
rights and freedoms guaranteed by the constitution
freedom of action/choice
Thanks to the automobile, Americans soon had a freedom of movement previously unknown.
complete freedom to do as you wish
He finally won his freedom after twenty years in jail.
freedom from fear/pain/hunger, etc.
I was given the freedom of the whole house.
a freehand drawing
to draw freehand
a freehold property
to buy a house freehold
a freelance journalist
freelance work
I work freelance from home.
the country's first freely elected president
EU citizens can now travel freely between member states.
When the gate is raised, the water can flow freely.
Traffic is now moving more freely following an earlier accident.
The book is now freely available in the shops (= it is not difficult to get a copy).
(figurative) The wine flowed freely (= there was a lot of it to drink).
I freely admit that I made a mistake.
For the first time he was able to speak freely without the fear of reprisals against his family.
Millions of people gave freely in response to the appeal for the victims of the earthquake.
the freemasonry of actors
Other sites use a freemium model where some content is free in order to entice people to pay for premium content.
the men's 400 m freestyle
freestyle skiing
a freeway exit
an accident on the freeway
I freewheeled down the hill to the village.
a freewheeling lifestyle
Water freezes at 0°C.
It's so cold that even the river has frozen.
The cold weather had frozen the ground.
The clothes froze solid on the washing line.
The pipes have frozen, so we've got no water.
Ten degrees of frost had frozen the lock on the car.
It may freeze tonight, so bring those plants inside.
Every time she opens the window we all freeze.
Two men froze to death on the mountain.
Two men were frozen to death on the mountain.
Can you freeze this cake?
These meals are ideal for home freezing.
Some fruits freeze better than others.
I froze with terror as the door slowly opened.
(figurative) The smile froze on her lips.
The police officer shouted 'Freeze!' and the man dropped the gun.
Freeze the action there!
Salaries have been frozen for the current year.
The company's assets have been frozen.
The question stopped Alice in her tracks.
The lake freezes over in winter.
a wage/price freeze
a freeze on imports
Farmers still talk about the big freeze of '99.
A freeze warning was posted for Thursday night.
It's freezing in here!
freezing fog
freezing temperatures
It's freezing cold outside.
Tonight temperatures will fall well below freezing (point).
the freezing point of polar sea water
to send goods by air freight
a freight business
passenger and freight transportation services
Each word was freighted with anger.
a scene of frenetic activity
a frenzied attack
frenzied activity
in a frenzy of activity/excitement/violence
The speaker worked the crowd up into a frenzy.
an outbreak of patriotic frenzy
a killing frenzy
Fatal road accidents have decreased in frequency over recent years.
a society with a high/low frequency (= happening often/not very often) of stable marriages
The program can show us word frequency (= how often words occur in a language).
the alarming frequency of computer errors
Objects like this turn up at sales with surprising frequency.
a high/low frequency
a frequency band
There are only a limited number of broadcasting frequencies.
He is a frequent visitor to this country.
Her calls became less frequent.
There is a frequent bus service into the centre of town.
How frequent is this word (= how often does it occur in the language)?
We met in a local bar much frequented by students.
'Chatter' is originally a frequentative form of 'chat'.
Buses run frequently between the city and the airport.
some of the most frequently asked questions about the Internet
Is this milk fresh?
fresh bread/flowers
Eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables.
vegetables fresh from the garden
Our chefs use only the freshest produce available.
fresh tracks in the snow
Let me write it down while it's still fresh in my mind.
fresh evidence
I think it's time we tried a fresh approach.
a fresh coat of paint
Could we order some fresh coffee?
This is the opportunity he needs to make a fresh start (= to try sth new after not being successful at sth else).
a toothpaste that leaves a nice fresh taste in your mouth
Let's go and get some fresh air (= go outside where the air is cooler).
There is a shortage of fresh water on the island.
a fresh breeze
It's fresh this morning, isn't it?
He looked fresh and neat in a clean white shirt.
a collection of summer dresses in fresh colours
a fresh complexion
Regular exercise will help you feel fresher and fitter.
I managed to sleep on the plane and arrived feeling as fresh as a daisy.
students fresh from college
fresh from her success at the Olympic Games
Don't get fresh with me!
We guarantee the freshness of all our produce.
the cool freshness of the water
I like the freshness of his approach to the problem.
Sorry, we're fresh out of milk.
fresh-faced kids
The walls need freshening up with white paint.
The rain had freshened the air.
Using a mouthwash freshens the breath.
The wind will freshen tonight.
I'll just go and freshen up before supper.
air freshener
freshly brewed coffee
college freshmen
during my freshman year
high school freshmen
freshwater fish
freshwater lakes
Fretting about it won't help.
Her baby starts to fret as soon as she goes out of the room.
friable soil
Friction between moving parts had caused the engine to overheat.
The force of friction slows the spacecraft down as it re-enters the earth's atmosphere.
conflicts and frictions that have still to be resolved
This dessert can be served straight from the fridge.
a warm and friendly person
Everyone was very friendly towards me.
a friendly smile/welcome
a small hotel with a friendly atmosphere
We soon became friendly with the couple next door.
She was on friendly terms with most of the hospital staff.
to maintain friendly relations with all countries
This software is much friendlier than the previous version.
environmentally-friendly farming methods
ozone-friendly cleaning materials
a friendly argument
friendly rivalry
(BrE) It was only a friendly match.
a close/lasting/lifelong friendship
friendships formed while she was at college
He seemed to have already struck up (= begun) a friendship with Jo.
It's the story of an extraordinary friendship between a boy and a seal.
Your friendship is very important to me.
a conference to promote international friendship
fried fish
the smell of bacon frying
You'll fry on the beach if you're not careful.
Would you like ketchup with your fries?
It's frigging cold outside.
Mind your own frigging business!
to cry out in fright
He was shaking with fright.
You gave me a fright jumping out at me like that.
I got the fright of my life.
The birds took fright and flew off.
Sorry, I didn't mean to frighten you.
She's not easily frightened.
She doesn't frighten easily (= it is not easy to make her afraid).
He threatened the intruders with a gun and frightened them off.
The high prices have frightened off many customers.
a frightened child
Don't be frightened.
He sounded frightened.
What are you frightened of?
I'm frightened of walking home alone in the dark.
I'm too frightened to ask him now.
She was frightened that the plane would crash.
I'm frightened for him (= that he will be hurt, etc.).
(informal) I'd never do that. I'd be frightened to death.
a frightening experience/prospect/thought
It's frightening to think it could happen again.
It was absolutely frightful!
This room's in a frightful mess.
a frightful accident
I'm frightfully sorry.
frigid air
a frigid voice
There was a frigid atmosphere in the room.
a white blouse with frills at the cuffs
a simple meal with no frills
a frilly blouse
a fringe of woodland
Along the coast, an industrial fringe had already developed.
on the northern fringe of the city
the urban/rural fringe
the fringes of society
Nina remained on the fringe of the crowd.
Street musicians have been gathering as part of the festival fringe.
fringe meetings at the party conference
The beach was fringed by coconut palms.
a carpet with a fringed edge
The fringe benefits include free health insurance.
Lambs frisked in the fields.
a frisky puppy
He frittered away the millions his father had left him.
The TV is on the fritz again.
It was just a piece of harmless frivolity.
I can't waste time on such frivolities.
frivolous comments/suggestions
Sorry, I was being frivolous.
frivolous pastimes/pleasures
frizzy hair
frizzled hair
frizzled bacon
She rocked the baby to and fro.
a party frock
the croaking of frogs
Police frogmen searched the lake for the murder weapon.
He was grabbed by two men and frogmarched out of the hall.
All this toing and froing between London and New York takes it out of him.
After a great deal of toing and froing, I decided not to change jobs after all.
children frolicking on the beach
It was just a harmless frolic.
frolicsome lambs
They are the neighbours from hell.
I learned German from scratch in six months.
They decided to dismantle the machine and start again from scratch.
He shook his head slowly from side to side.
The ship rolled from side to side.
She told me the whole story from soup to nuts.
She has to work at weekends from time to time.
She was dressed in green from top to toe.
The front of the building was covered with ivy.
The book has a picture of Rome on the front.
The front of the car was badly damaged.
Keep your eyes to the front and walk straight ahead.
There's a garden at the front of the house.
I prefer to travel in the front of the car (= next to the driver).
The teacher made me move my seat to the front of the classroom.
Write your name in the front of the book (= the first few pages).
I'll meet you in front of/outside your hotel.
There's a bus stop in front of the house(= on the same side of the road).
There's a bus stop opposite the house(= on the other side of the road).
The driver sits at the front of the bus.
Put the shortest flowers in the front (of the bunch).
She was lying on her front.
I spilled coffee down my front.
the west front of the cathedral
Couples walked hand in hand along the front.
More British troops have been sent to the front.
to serve at the front
fighting a war on two fronts
Things are looking unsettled on the economic front.
Progress has been made on all fronts.
Rudeness is just a front for her shyness.
It's not always easy to put on a brave front for the family.
The prime minister stressed the need to present a united front (= show people that all members of the group have the same opinion about things).
The travel company is just a front for drug trafficking.
the Animal Liberation Front
a cold/warm front
Their house is the one with the big garden in front.
The blue team is currently in front with a lead of six points.
The car in front of me stopped suddenly and I had to brake.
The bus stops right in front of our house.
He was standing in front of me in the line.
She spends all day sitting in front of (= working at) her computer.
Please don't talk about it in front of the children.
Don't give up. You still have your whole life in front of you.
There's only a small audience out front tonight.
I'll wait for you out (the) front.
We'll pay you half up front and the other half when you've finished the job.
to play up front
front teeth
the front wheels of the car
We had seats in the front row.
an animal's front legs
Let's go through to the front room (= the main room in a house where people sit and entertain guests).
a front-seat passenger
The cathedral fronts the city's main square.
The line of houses fronted straight onto the road.
a glass-fronted bookcase
He fronts a multinational company.
A former art student fronted the band (= was the main singer).
He fronted for them in several illegal property deals.
an Opposition front-bench spokesman on defence
There's someone at the front door.
Tanks have been deployed all along the front line.
front-line troops
a life spent in the front line of research
The story was on the front pages of all the tabloids.
The divorce made front-page news.
a need to front-load budget spending
the positive effects of front-loading funds
Teach your students to front-load their research.
the baroque frontage of Milan Cathedral
They bought two miles of river frontage along the Colorado.
Airbags protect the driver in the event of a severe frontal impact.
They launched a frontal attack on company directors.
a cold frontal system
the frontal lobes of the brain
the frontier between the land of the Saxons and that of the Danes
a customs post on the frontier with Italy
a frontier town/zone/post
a remote frontier settlement
to push back the frontiers of science (= to increase knowledge of science)
to roll back the frontiers of government (= to limit the powers of the government)
He acted as a frontman for a drugs cartel.
It will be a clear night with some ground frost.
a sharp/hard/severe frost
There were ten degrees of frost (= the temperature dropped to −10°C) last night.
frost damage
The car windows were covered with frost.
The mirror was frosted up.
The windows had frosted over.
the frosted garden
frosted eyeshadow
a frosty morning
He breathed in the frosty air.
frosty fields
a frosty look/reply
The latest proposals were given a frosty reception.
'No, thank you,' she said frostily.
a glass of beer with thick froth on top
a froth of black lace
a cup of frothing coffee
The dog was frothing at the mouth.
(figurative) He frothed at the mouth (= was very angry) when I asked for more money.
frothy coffee
frothy romantic novels
What are you frowning at me for?
'I don't understand,' she frowned.
In her family, any expression of feeling was frowned upon.
She looked up with a puzzled frown on her face.
a slight frown of disapproval/concentration, etc.
a small frowsty office
frozen peas
I'm absolutely frozen!
You look frozen stiff.
The ground was frozen solid.
She stared at him, frozen with shock.
a frugal existence/life
a frugal lunch of bread and cheese
to live/eat frugally
tropical fruits, such as bananas and pineapples
Eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables.
a piece of fruit (= an apple, an orange, etc.)
fruit juice
fruit trees
to enjoy the fruits of your labours (= the rewards for your hard work)
The book is the fruit of years of research.
She's nutty as a fruitcake.
a fruitful collaboration/discussion
The wine from this region is rich and fruity.
After months of hard work, our plans finally came to fruition.
His extravagant ideas were never brought to fruition.
a fruitless attempt/search
Our efforts to persuade her proved fruitless.
frumpy clothes
a frumpy housewife
What frustrates him is that there's too little money to spend on the project.
The rescue attempt was frustrated by bad weather.
It's very easy to get frustrated in this job.
They felt frustrated at the lack of progress.
He stamped his foot in frustrated rage.
frustrated desires
a frustrated artist
It's frustrating to have to wait so long.
Progress was frustratingly slow.
Dave thumped the table in frustration.
She couldn't stand the frustration of not being able to help.
sexual frustration
Every job has its difficulties and frustrations.
She took out her frustrations on the children.
the frustration of all his ambitions
a deep-fat fryer
The room is 12ft × 9ft.
Ft William
The course is 1 year FT, 2 years PT.
Oh, fuck! I've lost my keys.
Fuck you—I'm leaving.
Fuck it! We've missed the train.
Why don't you just fuck off?
You've really fucked up this time!
My parents' divorce really fucked me up.
I completely fucked up my exams.
Don't fuck with him.
What the fuck are you doing?
Let's get the fuck out of here!
You've done fuck all today.
I'm fucking sick of this fucking rain!
He's a fucking good player.
You're fucking well coming whether you want to or not.
This solution is a fudge rushed in to win cheers at the party conference.
I asked how long he was staying, but he fudged the answer.
Politicians are often very clever at fudging the issue.
solid fuel (= wood, coal, etc.)
nuclear fuels
a car with high fuel consumption
The new information adds fuel to the debate over safety procedures.
The revelations gave new fuel to angry opponents of the proposed law.
His remarks simply added fuel to the fire/flames of her rage.
Uranium is used to fuel nuclear plants.
oil-fuelled power stations
The helicopter was already fuelled (up) and ready to go.
to fuel speculation/rumours/fears
Higher salaries helped to fuel inflation.
a fugitive from justice
a fugitive criminal
a fugitive idea/thought
to fulfil your dream/ambition/potential
to fulfil a duty/an obligation/a promise
to fulfil the terms/conditions of an agreement
No candidate fulfils all the criteria for this position.
Nursery schools should fulfil the function of preparing children for school.
I need a job that really fulfils me.
He was able to fulfil himself through his painting.
the fulfilment of a dream
to find personal fulfilment
He doesn't feel fulfilled in his present job.
a fulfilling experience
It's satisfying to play a game really well.
Nursing can be a very rewarding career.
It was a simple but pleasing design.
It is gratifying to see such good results.
I'm finding the work much more fulfilling now.
a full bottle of wine
She could only nod, because her mouth was full.
My suitcase was full of books.
There were cardboard boxes stuffed full of clothes.
(BrE) Sorry, the hotel is full up tonight.
The sky was full of brightly coloured fireworks.
Life is full of coincidences.
Our new brochure is crammed full of inspirational ideas.
animals pumped full of antibiotics
She was full of admiration for the care she had received.
He smiled, his eyes full of laughter.
He was full of his new job and everything he'd been doing.
No more for me, thanks—I'm full up.
The kids still weren't full, so I gave them an ice cream each.
You can't run on a full stomach.
Full details are available on request.
I still don't think we've heard the full story.
a full English breakfast
A full refund will be given if the item is faulty.
Fill in your full name and address.
The country applied for full membership of the European Union.
Many people don't use their computers to their full potential.
measures to achieve full employment
Students should take full advantage of the university's facilities.
She came round the corner at full speed.
He'd had a very full life.
Her life was too full to find time for hobbies.
She is a full four inches shorter than her sister.
The moon was full, the sky clear.
He kissed her full sensual lips.
They specialize in clothes for women with a fuller figure.
a full skirt
He draws a unique full sound from the instrument.
the full fruity flavour of the wine
'You are so full of it!' she retorted furiously.
The address must be printed in full.
I've always believed in living life to the full.
She looked him full in the face.
Hunter is at full back.
Even with the lights on full beam I couldn't see very far.
Do you require full or half board?
a full-face view/portrait
They played to a full house.
She got full marks in the exam.
(figurative) Full marks to Bill for an excellent idea!(= he deserves praise)
I've already told you—we can't afford it, full stop!
The referee blew his whistle for full time.
The full-time score was 1–1.
a full-blooded attack
a full-blooded Scotsman
full-blown AIDS
The border dispute turned into a full-blown crisis.
a full-bodied red wine
a full-bodied string section
full-frontal nudity
a full-length portrait
a full-length novel
a full-length skirt
He was sprawled full-length across the bed.
It was a full-on night out with the boys.
a full-page ad
a full-scale attack
a full-scale model
a full-size model
a full-size snooker table
students in full-time education
a full-time employee
a full-time job
Looking after a child is a full-time job (= hard work that takes a lot of time).
She works full-time and still manages to run a home.
We experienced the full measure of their hospitality.
The concert only lasted an hour, so we felt we were getting short measure.
the fullness of her lips
the fullness of life
She had fully recovered from the accident.
We are fully aware of the dangers.
I fully understand your motives.
The disease affects fully 30 per cent of the population.
the emergence of a fully fledged market economy
She was now a fully fledged member of the teaching profession.
a fulsome apology
He was fulsome in his praise of the Prime Minister.
She fumbled in her pocket for a handkerchief.
He fumbled with the buttons on his shirt.
She was fumbling around in the dark looking for the light switch.
He fumbled the key into the ignition.
I fumbled to zip up my jacket.
During the interview, she fumbled helplessly for words.
to fumble an announcement
a fumbling schoolboy
She sat in the car, silently fuming at the traffic jam.
He was fuming with indignation.
'This is intolerable!' she fumed.
diesel/petrol/exhaust fumes
to be overcome by smoke and fumes
Clouds of toxic fumes escaped in a huge chemical factory blaze.
The body of a man was found in a fume-filled car yesterday.
to fumigate a room
Sailing is good fun.
Have fun! (= Enjoy yourself)
I decided to learn Spanish, just for fun.
I didn't do all that work just for the fun of it.
It's not much fun going to a party on your own.
'What fun!' she said with a laugh.
Walking three miles in the pouring rain is not my idea of fun.
'What do you say to a weekend in New York?' 'Sounds like fun.'
She's very lively and full of fun.
It's cruel to make fun of people who stammer.
Her novels poke fun at the upper class.
She's really fun to be with.
This game looks fun!
There are lots of fun things for young people to do here.
to fulfil/perform a function
bodily functions (= for example eating, sex, using the toilet)
The function of the heart is to pump blood through the body.
This design aims for harmony of form and function.
The hall provided a venue for weddings and other functions.
(figurative) Salary is a function of age and experience.
Despite the power cuts, the hospital continued to function normally.
We now have a functioning shower.
Many children can't function effectively in large classes.
The sofa also functions as a bed.
Bathrooms don't have to be purely functional.
The office was large and functional rather than welcoming.
a functional disorder (= an illness caused when an organ of the body fails to perform its function)
a functional approach to language learning
These units played a key functional role in the military operation.
The hospital will soon be fully functional.
Manufacturing processes may be affected by the functionality of the product.
new software with additional functionality
party/state/government functionaries
a disaster relief fund
the company's pension fund
the International Monetary Fund
government funds
The hospital is trying to raise funds for a new kidney machine.
The project has been cancelled because of lack of funds
I'm short of funds at the moment—can I pay you back next week?
a fund of knowledge
a dance festival funded by the Arts Council
The museum is privately funded.
a government-funded programme
The artist explained the funda behind her exhibits.
There is a fundamental difference between the two points of view.
A fundamental change in the organization of health services was required.
a question of fundamental importance
Hard work is fundamental to success.
a fundamental particle
the fundamentals of modern physics
He taught me the fundamentals of the job.
The two approaches are fundamentally different.
By the 1960s the situation had changed fundamentally.
They remained fundamentally opposed to the plan.
Fundamentally, there are two different approaches to the problem.
She is fundamentally a nice person, but she finds it difficult to communicate.
a computer fundi
He's become quite a fundi on wine.
There have been large cuts in government funding for scientific research.
Hundreds of people attended the funeral.
a funeral procession
a funeral march (= a sad piece of music suitable for funerals)
funerary monuments/rites
a funereal atmosphere
a fungal infection
fungus infections
a fungoid growth
a funky disco beat
She wears really funky clothes.
Wind was funnelling through the gorge.
Huge pipes funnel the water down the mountainside.
Barricades funnelled the crowds towards the square.
(figurative) Some $10 million in aid was funnelled into the country through government agencies.
That's the funniest thing I've ever heard.
It's not funny! Someone could have been hurt.
I was really embarrassed, but then I saw the funny side of it.
(ironic) Oh very funny! You expect me to believe that?
' What's so funny?' she demanded.
The party was great fun.
A funny thing happened to me today.
It's funny how things never happen the way you expect them to.
That's funny —he was here a moment ago and now he's gone.
The funny thing is it never happened again after that.
The engine's making a very funny noise.
I'm pleased I didn't get that job, in a funny sort of way.
I suspect there may be something funny going on.
If there has been any funny business, we'll soon find out.
Don't you get funny with me!
I feel a bit funny today—I don't think I'll go to work.
That Dave's a funny chap, isn't he?
She went a bit funny after her husband died.
My computer keeps going funny.
Funnily enough, I met her only yesterday.
a fur coat
the fur trade
a fur farm (= where animals are bred and killed for their fur)
The animal is hunted for its fur.
fur-lined gloves
elegant ladies in furs
We had walked further than I had realized.
Two miles further on we came to a small town.
The hospital is further down the road.
Can you stand a bit further away?
Think further back into your childhood.
How will the company be doing ten years further on?
The police decided to investigate further.
My life is further complicated by having to work such long hours.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
Further, it is important to consider the cost of repairs.
I would go even further and suggest that the entire government is corrupt.
They watered down the soup to make it go further.
I am not satisfied with your explanation and intend to take the matter further.
Cook for a further 2 minutes.
Have you any further questions?
For further details call this number.
We have decided to take no further action.
The museum is closed until further notice (= until we say that it is open again).
They hoped the new venture would further the cause of cultural cooperation in Europe.
She took the new job to further her career.
Her eyes blazed with fury.
Fury over tax increases (= as a newspaper headline )
(figurative) There was no shelter from the fury of the storm.
He flew into a fury when I refused.
She was absolutely furious at having been deceived.
He was furious with himself for letting things get so out of control.
I'm furious that I wasn't told about it.
a furious debate
She drove off at a furious pace.
furiously angry
'Damn!' he said furiously.
They worked furiously all weekend, trying to get it finished on time.
It's like a furnace (= very hot) in here!
The room was furnished with antiques.
She furnished him with the facts surrounding the case.
furnished accommodation (= to rent complete with furniture)
The house was simply furnished.
soft furnishings
The wallpaper should match the furnishings.
a piece of furniture
garden/office, etc. furniture
We need to buy some new furniture.
I worked there so long that I became part of the furniture.
His novel about Jesus caused a furore among Christians.
the recent furore over the tax increases
a furred tongue
small furry animals
The moss was soft and furry to the touch.
furrowed fields
Further to our conversation of last Friday, I would like to book the conference centre for 26 June.
He took these actions purely in (the) furtherance of his own career.
He said he had not discussed the matter with her. Furthermore, he had not even contacted her.
at the furthermost end of the street
She cast a furtive glance over her shoulder.
He looked sly and furtive.
to change a fuse
Check whether a fuse has blown.
He set the fuse to three minutes.
The bombs inside were on a one-hour fuse.
You may find your temper on a short fuse when confronting your teenager.
As they heal, the bones will fuse together.
Our different ideas fused into a plan.
The sperm fuses with the egg to begin the process of fertilization.
The two companies have been fused into a single organization.
Atoms of hydrogen are fused to make helium.
The lights have fused.
I've fused the lights.
Is this plug fused?
a fusillade of bullets/stones
(figurative) He faced a fusillade of questions from the waiting journalists.
the fusion of copper and zinc to produce brass
The movie displayed a perfect fusion of image and sound.
French–Thai fusion
He does what he's told without any fuss.
All that fuss over a few pounds!
It's a very ordinary movie—I don't know what all the fuss is about (= why other people think it is so good).
It was all a fuss about nothing.
We'd like a quiet wedding without any fuss.
I'm sorry for making such a fuss about the noise.
Steve kicks up a fuss every time I even suggest seeing you.
They made a great fuss of the baby.
The dog loves being made a fuss of.
Stop fussing around and find something useful to do!
Don't fuss with your hair!
Don't fuss, Mum, everything is all right.
It'd be good to be there, but I'm not that fussed.
fussy parents
Our teacher is very fussy about punctuation.
She's such a fussy eater.
'Where do you want to go for lunch?' 'I'm not fussy (= I don't mind).'
a fussy manner
the quick, fussy movements of her small hands
The costume designs are too fussy.
a dark fusty room
fusty ideas
a fusty old professor
a futile attempt/exercise/gesture
Their efforts to revive him were futile.
It would be futile to protest.
My appeal proved futile.
a sense of futility
the futility of war
We need to plan for the future.
What will the cities of the future look like?
The movie is set in the future.
The exchange rate is likely to fall in the near future (= soon).
What does the future hold?
Her future is uncertain.
This deal could safeguard the futures of the 2 000 employees.
She has a great future ahead of her.
I can't see any future in this relationship.
oil futures
the futures market
Please be more careful in future.
In future, make sure the door is never left unlocked.
future generations
at a future date
future developments in computer software
He met his future wife at law school.
future-proof website design
The firm claims that it future-proofs its software.
futurist poets
futuristic design
a futuristic novel
a vision of futurity
a fuzz of blonde hair
I saw it as a dim fuzz through the binoculars.
a fuzzy image
The soundtrack is fuzzy in places.
fuzzy ideas/thinking
physical fitness
physical appearance
The ordeal has affected both her mental and physical health.
He tends to avoid all physical contact.
the physical world/universe/environment
the physical properties (= the colour, weight, shape, etc.) of copper
It is a physical impossibility to be in two places at once.
physical laws
physical love
They are having a physical relationship.
She's not very physical.
Are you going to cooperate or do we have to get physical?
400g flour
Spacecraft which are re-entering the earth's atmosphere are affected by g forces.
'Gold' begins with (a) G/'G'.
She was nervous and started to gabble.
They were gabbling on about the past.
He was gabbling nonsense.
'No, no, not all,' she gabbled.
a gabled house/roof
His desk is covered with electronic gadgetry.
a press gag
a gag rule/order (= one given by a court of law)
to tell/crack a gag
a running gag (= one that is regularly repeated during a performance)
It was just a gag—we didn't mean to upset anyone.
The hostages were bound and gagged.
The new laws are seen as an attempt to gag the press.
She gagged on the blood that filled her mouth.
He has gone completely gaga.
The fans went totally gaga over the band.
to impose/issue/lift/obtain a gagging order
a gaggle of tourists/schoolchildren
The colourful flags added to the gaiety of the occasion.
a gaily decorated room
gaily laughing children
She waved gaily to the little crowd.
She gaily announced that she was leaving the next day.
to gain entrance/entry/access to sth
The country gained its independence ten years ago.
The party gained over 50% of the vote.
Her unusual talent gained her worldwide recognition.
There is nothing to be gained from delaying the decision.
Who stands to gain from this decision?
to gain confidence/strength/experience
I've gained weight recently.
My watch gains two minutes every 24 hours.
The shares gained 14p to 262p.
The euro gained against the dollar again today.
At last she gained the shelter of the forest.
Sterling continues to gain ground against the dollar.
to gain in confidence
His books have gained in popularity in recent years.
a £3 000 gain from our investment
Regular exercise helps prevent weight gain.
efficiency gains
These policies have resulted in great gains in public health.
Our loss is their gain.
He only seems to be interested in personal gain.
It's amazing what some people will do for gain.
The police car was gaining ground on the suspects.
They needed to make up ground on their competitors.
gainful employment
gainfully employed
Nobody can gainsay his claims.
He walked with a rolling gait.
a pair of gaiters
a charity gala
a gala dinner/night
a swimming gala
a galaxy of Hollywood stars
The gale blew down hundreds of trees.
gale-force winds
(BrE) It's blowing a gale outside (= a strong wind is blowing).
His speech was greeted with gales of laughter.
Then they had the gall to complain!
It galls me to have to apologize to her.
gallant soldiers
She made a gallant attempt to hide her tears.
She gallantly battled on alone.
He bowed and gallantly kissed my hand.
a medal for gallantry
an art/a picture gallery
the National Gallery
Relatives of the victim watched from the public gallery as the murder charge was read out in court.
Gallic charm
It was galling to have to apologize to a man she hated.
You're too old to go gallivanting around Europe.
Jo galloped across the field towards him.
He galloped his horse home.
She came galloping down the street.
He rode off at a gallop.
My horse suddenly broke into a gallop.
to go for a gallop
galloping inflation
to send a man to the gallows (= to send him to his death by hanging)
There will be games and prizes galore.
a pair of galoshes
The urgency of his voice galvanized them into action.
a galvanized bucket
galvanized steel
an opening gambit (= the first thing you say)
to gamble at cards
to gamble on the horses
I gambled all my winnings on the last race.
He's gambling his reputation on this deal.
It was wrong to gamble with our children's future.
He was a compulsive gambler (= found it difficult to stop).
He gambled on being able to buy a ticket at the last minute.
She knew she was taking a gamble but decided it was worth it.
They invested money in the company right at the start and the gamble paid off (= brought them success).
heavy gambling debts
lambs gambolling in the meadow
card games
board games
a game of chance/skill
ball games, such as football or tennis
(NAmE) We're going to the ball game (= baseball game).
to play a game of chess
Saturday's League game against Swansea
Let's have a game of table tennis.
They're in training for the big game.
Maguire raised his game to collect the £40 000 first prize.
Stretching exercises can help you avoid injury and improve your game.
the Olympic Games
I always hated games at school.
two games all (= both players have won two games)
a game of cops and robbers
Her main interests are music and gardening.
His hobbies include swimming and cooking.
He was playing games with the dog.
Eating out is the national pastime in France.
His main hobby is football(= he plays football).
His main interest is football(= he watches and reads about football, and may or may not play it).
He was playing games with the dog.
How long have you been in this game?
the game of politics
I'm new to this game myself.
Getting dirty was all part of the game to the kids.
So that's his game (= now I know what he has been planning).
We were losing 2–0 with ten minutes to go, and then we scored. It was game on!
Don't play silly games with me; I know you did it.
Hard work is the name of the game if you want to succeed in business.
MPs were playing the numbers game as the crucial vote drew closer.
Some companies only received a government grant because they gamed the system.
The government finance programme is being gamed by some high-profile banks.
He gamed his publishers, his family and his friends in order to make a success of his autobiography.
She's game for anything.
We need a volunteer for this exercise. Who's game to try?
a game-changing technology
I haven't completed the game yet as my controller broke last week.
a game-changing technology
She tried gamely to finish the race.
It's much easier to play this game using a gamepad rather than a keyboard and mouse.
The supermarket chain has started using gamification to make food shopping online fun.
We gamified the online survey by awarding virtual rewards at the end of each section.
He spent all night at the gaming tables.
The network will provide the gamut of computer services to your home.
She felt she had run the (whole) gamut of human emotions from joy to despair.
Gandhian ideals/values/philosophy
a keen Gandhian and social reformer
criminal gang members and drug dealers
a gang of pickpockets
A four-man gang carried out the robbery.
a gang of youths
a street gang
The whole gang will be there.
At school the older boys ganged up on him and called him names.
gangland killings
a gangling youth/adolescent
Gangrene set in and he had to have his leg amputated.
Chicago gangsters
a gap in a hedge
Leave a gap between your car and the next.
a gap in the conversation
They met again after a gap of twenty years.
There's a big age gap between them (= a big difference in their ages).
the gap between rich and poor
the gap between theory and practice
His death left an enormous gap in my life.
There were several gaps in my education.
We think we've identified a gap in the market (= a business opportunity to make or sell sth that is not yet available).
I'm planning to take a gap year and go backpacking in India.
a gaping hole/mouth/wound
He stood yawning, his pyjama jacket gaping open.
(BrE) a house with a built-in garage
(NAmE) a house with an attached garage
a double garage (= one for two cars)
a bus garage
an underground garage (= for example under an office building)
a garage mechanic
to give a guarantee of good behaviour
He gave me a guarantee that it would never happen again.
They are demanding certain guarantees before they sign the treaty.
We provide a 5-year guarantee against rust.
The watch is still under guarantee.
The television comes with a year's guarantee.
a money-back guarantee
Career success is no guarantee of happiness.
There's no guarantee that she'll come (= she may not come).
We had to offer our house as a guarantee when getting the loan.
A close relative, usually a parent, can provide a guarantee for the loan.
Basic human rights, including freedom of speech, are now guaranteed.
We cannot guarantee (that) our flights will never be delayed.
The ticket will guarantee you free entry.
We guarantee to deliver your goods within a week.
This iron is guaranteed for a year against faulty workmanship.
Tonight's victory guarantees the team's place in the final.
These days getting a degree doesn't guarantee you a job.
You can guarantee (that) the children will start being naughty as soon as they have to go to bed.
to guarantee a bank loan
to guarantee to pay sb's debts
I guarantee that he will appear in court.
prison garb
dance the garba
Indian traditional folk music and dances, including Garba and Bihu
garbage collection
Don't forget to take out the garbage.
Throw it in the garbage.
brightly garbed
He gave a garbled account of what had happened.
There was a garbled message from her on my voicemail.
a front/back garden
children playing in the garden
garden flowers/plants
out in the garden
a rose garden (= where only roses are grown)
the botanical gardens in Edinburgh
39 Belvoir Gardens
My wife's a keen gardener.
We employ a gardener two days a week.
organic gardening
gardening gloves
a gardening programme on TV
He is not one of your garden-variety criminals.
She handed in her resignation and was put on three months' gardening leave.
a gargantuan appetite/meal
an antiseptic gargle
to have a gargle with salt water
garish clothes/colours
garishly decorated/lit/painted
a garrison of 5 000 troops
a garrison town
Half the garrison is/are on duty.
Two regiments were sent to garrison the town.
100 soldiers were garrisoned in the town.
a clove of garlic (= one section of it)
garlicky breath/food
a strange shapeless garment that had once been a jacket
woollen/winter/outer garments
Air is a mixture of gases.
CFC gases
a gas bottle/cylinder (= for storing gas)
a gas cooker/fire/furnace/oven/ring/stove
a gas explosion/leak
gas central heating
(BrE) Preheat the oven to gas mark 5 (= a particular temperature of a gas oven).
an anaesthetic gas
During the birth she was given gas and air.
a gas attack
a gas station
a gas pump
to fill up the gas tank
Step on the gas, we're late.
The party was a real gas.
gas-cooled nuclear reactors
gas-fired central heating
gas-permeable contact lenses
a gaseous mixture
in gaseous form
He gashed his hand on a sharp piece of rock.
The engine had blown a gasket (= had allowed steam, etc. to escape).
(figurative, informal) He blew a gasket at the news (= became very angry).
In the gaslight she looked paler than ever.
I fill up the tank with gasoline about once a week.
leaded/unleaded gasoline
She gasped at the wonderful view.
They gasped in astonishment at the news.
'What was that noise?' he gasped.
He came to the surface of the water gasping for air.
She managed to gasp out her name.
'Can't breathe,' he gasped.
to give a gasp of horror/surprise/relief
His breath came in short gasps.
a gastric ulcer
gastric juices (= the acids in your stomach that help you to digest food)
an iron gate
He pushed open the garden gate.
A crowd gathered at the factory gates.
the gates of the city
We drove through the palace gates.
a lock/sluice gate
BA flight 726 to Paris is now boarding at gate 16.
Tonight's game has attracted the largest gate of the season.
Today's gate will be given to charity.
a strawberry gateau
Is there any gateau left?
His secretary acts as a gatekeeper, reading all mail before it reaches her boss.
They turned through the gateway on the left.
Perth, the gateway to Western Australia
A good education is the gateway to success.
A crowd soon gathered.
His supporters gathered in the main square.
Can you all gather round? I've got something to tell you.
The whole family gathered together at Ray's home.
They were all gathered round the TV.
A large crowd was gathered outside the studio.
The kids were gathered together in one room.
People slowly gathered their belongings and left the hall.
Detectives have spent months gathering evidence.
to gather wild flowers
It was late August and the harvest had been safely gathered in.
I gather (that) you wanted to see me.
I gather from your letter that you're not enjoying your job.
'There's been a delay.' 'I gathered that.'
'She won't be coming.' ' So I gather.'
You're self-employed, I gather.
As far as I can gather, he got involved in a fight.
From what I can gather, there's been some kind of problem.
The truck gathered speed.
During the 1980s the green movement gathered momentum.
Thousands of these machines are gathering dust (= not being used) in stockrooms.
The storm clouds were gathering.
the gathering gloom of a winter's afternoon
He gathered his cloak around him.
She gathered up her skirts and ran.
She wore a skirt gathered (in) at the waist.
She gathered the child in her arms and held him close.
He gathered her to him.
I sat down for a moment to gather my strength.
She was still trying to gather her thoughts together when the door opened.
Fortunately the short delay gave him time to gather himself.
prehistoric hunters and gatherers
a social/family gathering
a gathering of religious leaders
methods of information gathering
I am gatvol of travelling on a jarring road, picking up punctures.
I'm gatvol with this traffic.
a gauche schoolgirl/manner
the gaucheness of youth
gaudy clothes/colours
gaudily dressed/painted
a fuel/petrol/temperature, etc. gauge
What gauge of wire do we need?
a 12-gauge shotgun
standard gauge (= 56½ inches in Britain)
a narrow gauge (= narrower than standard) railway
Tomorrow's game against Arsenal will be a good gauge of their promotion chances.
They interviewed employees to gauge their reaction to the changes.
He tried to gauge her mood.
It was difficult to gauge whether she was angry or not.
precision instruments that can gauge the diameter to a fraction of a millimetre
We were able to gauge the strength of the wind from the movement of the trees.
a gaunt face
motorcyclists with leather gauntlets
Some of the witnesses had to run the gauntlet of television cameras and reporters.
Farmers should be guardians of the countryside.
The police are guardians of law and order.
a gauze dressing
wire gauze
a gauzy material
For Gawd's sake hurry up!
gay men
I didn't know he was gay.
Is she gay?
a gay club/bar
the lesbian and gay community
She didn't like the ringtone—said it was gay.
That is so gay!
gay laughter
The garden was gay with red geraniums.
She gazed at him in amazement.
He sat for hours just gazing into space.
I screamed and everyone stared.
We all gazed at Marco in amazement.
I looked at her and she glared stonily back.
He met her gaze (= looked at her while she looked at him).
She dropped her gaze (= stopped looking).
Here, have a look at this.
She stole a glance at her watch.
She felt embarrassed under his steady gaze.
She gave the officer a blank stare and shrugged her shoulders.
He caught a glimpse of her in the crowd.
She fixed her questioner with a hostile glare.
the Evening Gazette
gazillion-dollar houses
gazillions of copies
The vendors were gazundered at the last minute.
a 750GB hard drive
She's got 10 GCSEs.
He's doing German at GCSE.
7 Windsor Gdns
Careless use of the clutch may damage the gears.
first/second, etc. gear
reverse gear
low/high gear
(BrE) bottom/top gear
(BrE) to change gear
(NAmE) to shift gear
When parking on a hill, leave the car in gear.
What gear are you in?
He drove wildly, crashing through the gears like a maniac.
climbing/fishing/sports, etc. gear
wearing the latest gear
I've left all my gear at Dave's house.
lifting/towing/winding, etc. gear
(BrE) The party organization is moving into top gear as the election approaches.
(NAmE) to move into high gear
Coming out of the final bend, the runner stepped up a gear to overtake the rest of the pack.
The course had been geared towards the specific needs of its members.
Cycle organizations are gearing up for National Bike Week.
The programme is geared to preparing students for the world of work.
The resort is geared towards children.
We have people on board geared up to help with any problems.
He's a total gearhead—can't keep away from the race track.
Gee, what a great idea!
a computer geek
Some geezer called Danny did it.
hair/shower gel
We just didn't gel as a group.
Ideas were beginning to gel in my mind.
That day, everything gelled.
a gelatinous substance
a gelid pond
a gelid reply
a crown studded with gems
This picture is the gem (= the best) of the collection.
a gem of a place
She's a real gem!
Gen. (Stanley) Armstrong
The general opinion is that the conference was a success.
the general belief/consensus
books of general interest (= of interest to most people)
The bad weather has been fairly general (= has affected most areas).
There is one exception to this general principle.
As a general rule (= usually) he did what he could to be helpful.
This opinion is common among the general population (= ordinary people).
I check the bookings to get a general idea of what activities to plan.
I know how it works in general terms.
They gave a general description of the man.
They fired in the general direction of the enemy.
a general hospital
general education
We shall keep the discussion fairly general.
a general anaesthetic
The building was in a general state of disrepair.
the general manager
the Inspector General of Police
In general, Japanese cars are very reliable and breakdowns are rare.
This is a crucial year for your relationships in general and your love life in particular.
General Tom Parker
issues of class, race and gender
traditional concepts of gender
gender differences/relations/roles
In French the adjective must agree with the noun in number and gender.
The report was redrafted to remove gender-specific language.
a dominant/recessive gene
genes that code for the colour of the eyes
a genealogical chart/table/tree (= a chart with branches that shows a person's ancestors)
a general knowledge quiz
to be in general practice
She runs a general practice in Hull.
At that time, the general public was/were not aware of the health risks.
The exhibition is not open to the general public.
a general-purpose farm vehicle
a speech full of broad/sweeping generalizations
to make generalizations about sth
Try to avoid generalization.
It would be foolish to generalize from a single example.
It is dangerous to generalize about the poor.
These conclusions cannot be generalized to the whole country.
to speak in broad generalities
As usual, he confined his comments to generalities.
This view is held by the generality of leading scholars.
An account of such generality is of little value.
a generalized discussion
a generalized disease/rash (= affecting the whole body)
The plan was generally welcomed.
It is now generally accepted that…
The new drug will be generally available from January.
He was a generally unpopular choice for captain.
I generally get up at six.
The male is generally larger with a shorter beak.
Let's talk just about investment generally.
Generally speaking, the more you pay, the more you get.
There are, broadly speaking, two ways of doing this.
Personally speaking, I've always preferred Italian food.
to generate electricity/heat/power
to generate income/profit
We need someone to generate new ideas.
The proposal has generated a lot of interest.
The factory's emergency generators were used during the power cut.
a wind generator (= a machine that uses the power of the wind to produce electricity)
The museum uses smells and smoke generators to create atmosphere.
(figurative) The company is a major generator of jobs.
the UK's major electricity generator
the younger/older generation
My generation have grown up without the experience of a world war.
I often wonder what future generations will make of our efforts.
a generation ago
My family have lived in this house for generations.
stories passed down from generation to generation
a first-/second-generation American (= a person whose family has lived in America for one/two generations)
She has inspired a whole generation of fashion school graduates.
fifth-generation computing
a new generation of vehicle
the generation of electricity
methods of income generation
a movie that is sure to bridge the generation gap
generational conflict
generative processes
'Vine fruit' is the generic term for currants and raisins.
The doctor offered me a choice of a branded or a generic drug.
He treated them with generosity and thoughtfulness.
a generous benefactor
to be generous with your time
to be generous in giving help
a generous gift/offer
It was generous of him to offer to pay for us both.
a generous helping of meat
The car has a generous amount of space.
a generous mind
He wrote a very generous assessment of my work.
Please give generously.
a dress that is generously cut (= uses plenty of material)
genetic and environmental factors
genetic abnormalities
genetically engineered/determined/transmitted
genetically modified foods (= made from plants that have been changed in this way)
Her politics are somewhere to the right of Genghis Khan.
a genial person
a genial smile
an atmosphere of warmth and geniality
to smile genially
the genius of Shakespeare
a statesman of genius
Her idea was a stroke of genius.
a mathematical/comic, etc. genius
He's a genius at organizing people.
You don't have to be a genius to see that they are in love!
He had a genius for making people feel at home.
a genius idea
the genital area
genital infections
genito-urinary disease/medicine
the human genome
a gent's hairdresser
This way please, ladies and gents!
Is there a gents near here?
Where's the gents?
a genteel manner
Her genteel accent irritated me.
He lived in genteel poverty (= trying to keep the style of a high social class, but with little money).
He took her hand with discreet gentility.
She thinks expensive clothes are a mark of gentility.
the faded gentility of the town
a quiet and gentle man
a gentle voice/laugh/touch
She was the gentlest of nurses.
He lived in a gentler age than ours.
Be gentle with her!
She agreed to come, after a little gentle persuasion.
He looks scary but he's really a gentle giant.
a gentle breeze
the gentle swell of the sea
Cook over a gentle heat.
We went for a gentle stroll.
a little gentle exercise
This soap is very gentle on the hands.
a gentle slope/curve/angle
Thank you—you're a real gentleman.
He's no gentleman!
Ladies and gentlemen! Can I have your attention, please?
Gentlemen of the jury!
Can I help you, gentlemen?
There's a gentleman to see you.
Can I help you?
There's someone to see you.
a country gentleman
a gentleman farmer (= one who owns a farm for pleasure, not as his main job)
gentlemanly behaviour
So far, the election campaign has been a very gentlemanly affair.
She held the baby gently.
'You miss them, don't you?' he asked gently.
Simmer the soup gently for 30 minutes.
Massage the area gently but firmly.
leaves moving gently in the breeze
The path ran gently down to the sea.
Gently! You'll hurt the poor thing!
Don't go too fast— gently does it!
Old working-class areas of the city are being gentrified.
the local gentry
the landed gentry (= those who own a lot of land)
Is the painting a genuine Picasso?
Fake designer watches are sold at a fraction of the price of the genuine article.
Only genuine refugees can apply for asylum.
He made a genuine attempt to improve conditions.
genuine concern for others
a very genuine person
genuinely sorry
geochemical
geoscience
Geofencing around shops means that as you pass a participating store you will receive promotional offers for goods and services within that store.
You can even set up a geofence around a truck and receive an alert if your truck leaves the area.
human/physical/economic/social geography
a geography lesson/department/teacher/textbook
a degree in geography
the geography of New York City
Kim knew the geography of the building and strode along the corridor.
The geography of poverty and the geography of voting are connected.
The survey covers a wide geographical area.
The importance of the town is due to its geographical location.
geographically remote areas
the geology of the British Isles
a geological survey
a geometric design
the geometry of a spider's web
geophysical data
a Geordie accent
a fine Georgian house
geothermal energy
I'm not a geriatric yet, you know!
the geriatric ward (= in a hospital)
a geriatric vehicle (= old and in bad condition)
Disinfectant kills germs.
Dirty hands can be a breeding ground for germs.
Here was the germ of a brilliant idea.
remarks that are germane to the discussion
She had an almost Germanic regard for order.
(figurative) An idea for a novel began to germinate in her mind.
a baby born at 38 weeks' gestation
The gestation period of a horse is about eleven months.
He gesticulated wildly at the clock.
wild/frantic gesticulations
He made a rude gesture at the driver of the other car.
She finished what she had to say with a gesture of despair.
They communicated entirely by gesture.
They sent some flowers as a gesture of sympathy to the parents of the child.
It was a nice gesture (= it was kind) to invite his wife too.
We do not accept responsibility but we will refund the money as a gesture of goodwill.
The government has made a gesture towards public opinion (= has tried to do sth that the public will like).
'I see you read a lot,' he said, gesturing at the wall of books.
She gestured for them to come in.
He gestured (to me) that it was time to go.
They gestured that I should follow.
I got a letter from Dave this morning.
What (= What presents) did you get for your birthday?
He gets (= earns) about $40 000 a year.
This room gets very little sunshine.
I got a shock when I saw the bill.
I get the impression that he is bored with his job.
Where did you get (= buy) that skirt?
Did you manage to get tickets for the concert?
She opened the door wider to get a better look.
Try to get some sleep.
He has just got a new job.
Did you get a present for your mother?
Did you get your mother a present?
Why don't you get yourself a car?
How much did you get for your car?
Quick— go and get a cloth!
Somebody get a doctor!
I have to go and get my mother from the airport (= collect her).
Get a drink for John.
Get John a drink.
He got ten years (= was sent to prison for ten years) for armed robbery.
We can't get Channel 5 in our area.
Which newspaper do you get?
He got a 'C' in Chemistry and a 'B' in English.
I got this cold off (= from) you!
She gets (= often suffers from) really bad headaches.
I wanted to speak to the manager but I got his secretary instead.
to get angry/bored/hungry/fat
You'll soon get used to the climate here.
We ought to go; it's getting late.
to get dressed/undressed (= to put your clothes on/take your clothes off)
They plan to get married in the summer.
She's upstairs getting ready.
I wouldn't go there alone; you might get (= be) mugged.
My car got (= was) stolen at the weekend.
Don't get your dress dirty!
He got his fingers caught in the door.
She soon got the children ready for school.
After a time you get to realize that these things don't matter.
You'll like her once you get to know her.
His drinking is getting to be a problem.
She's getting to be an old lady now.
I couldn't get the car to start this morning.
He got his sister to help him with his homework.
You'll never get him to understand.
Can you really get that old car going again?
It's not hard to get him talking—the problem is stopping him!
I must get my hair cut.
I'll never get all this work finished.
I got talking to her.
We need to get going soon.
He got to try out all the new software.
It's not fair—I never get to go first.
We got to San Diego at 7 o'clock.
You got in very late last night.
What time did you get here?
I haven't got very far with the book I'm reading.
The bridge was destroyed so we couldn't get across the river.
She got into bed.
He got down from the ladder.
We didn't get (= go) to bed until 3 a.m.
Where do we get on the bus?
I'm getting off (= leaving the train) at the next station.
Where have they got to (= where are they)?
We must be getting home; it's past midnight.
The general had to get his troops across the river.
We couldn't get the piano through the door.
We'd better call a taxi and get you home.
I can't get the lid off.
We're going to be late—let's get a taxi.
I usually get the bus to work.
Who's getting the lunch?
I must go home and get tea for the kids.
I must go home and get the kids their tea.
Will you get the phone?
He was on the run for a week before the police got him.
to get sb by the arm/wrist/throat
She fell overboard and the sharks got her.
He thinks everybody is out to get him (= trying to harm him).
(informal) I'll get you for that!
The bullet got him in the neck.
She didn't get the joke.
I don't get it —why would she do a thing like that?
I get the message —you don't want me to come.
You get (= There are) all these kids hanging around in the street.
They still get cases of typhoid there.
'What's the capital of Bhutan?' ' You've got me there! ' (= I don't know)
What gets me is having to do the same thing all day long.
This line of investigation is getting us nowhere.
Being rude to me won't get you anywhere.
After six months' work on the project, at last I feel I'm getting somewhere.
I don't seem to be getting anywhere with this letter.
I'm sure you'll get there in the end.
It's not perfect but we're getting there (= making progress).
OK, get this guys—there are only two left!
I'm partly to blame? What exactly are you getting at?
What's got into Alex? He never used to worry like that.
Your meaning didn't really get across.
He's not very good at getting his ideas across.
She wants to get ahead in her career.
He soon got ahead of the others in his class.
It's time we were getting along.
She gets around with the help of a stick.
News soon got around that he had resigned.
He's always getting at me.
She feels she's being got at.
The files are locked up and I can't get at them.
The truth is sometimes difficult to get at.
We're hoping to get away for a few days at Easter.
'These tickets didn't cost me a thing.' 'Get away!'
I won't be able to get away from the office before 7.
Thieves got away with computer equipment worth $30 000.
He was lucky to get away with only a fine.
Don't be tempted to cheat—you'll never get away with it.
Nobody gets away with insulting me like that.
After the first month, you should be able to get away with one lesson a week.
She's got her old job back.
I never lend books—you never get them back.
I'll find a way of getting back at him!
I'll find out and get back to you.
Could we get back to the question of funding?
I just got back together with my ex-girlfriend.
I'm getting behind with my work.
He got behind with the payments for his car.
How does she get by on such a small salary?
I can just about get by in German (= I can speak basic German).
Did you get his number down?
Let's get down to business.
I like to get down to work by 9.
It's time I got down to thinking about that essay.
The train got in late.
What time do you get into Heathrow?
The Republican candidate stands a good chance of getting in.
She first got into Parliament (= became an MP) in 2005.
She's got into Durham to study law.
to get the crops/harvest in
Remember to get in some beers for this evening.
I got in an hour's work while the baby was asleep.
She talks so much it's impossible to get a word in.
He's hoping to get in on any discussions about the new project.
I can't get into these shoes—they're too small.
What's the best way to get into journalism?
I got into conversation with an Italian student.
to get into a fight
Don't let yourself get into bad habits.
You should get into the routine of saving the document you are working on every ten minutes.
How did she get into (= start taking) drugs?
I'm really getting into jazz these days.
I haven't really got into my new job yet.
He got into trouble with the police while he was still at school.
Three people were rescued from a yacht which got into difficulties.
She got herself into a real state (= became very anxious) before the interview.
Get off me, that hurts!
We got off straight after breakfast.
He got the children off to school.
I had great difficulty getting off to sleep.
They couldn't get the baby off till midnight.
Could you get off (work) early tomorrow?
Please can we get off the subject of dieting?
I couldn't get him off politics once he had started.
I must get these letters off first thing tomorrow.
She was lucky to get off with just a few bruises.
He was lucky to get off with a small fine.
A good lawyer might be able to get you off.
Steve got off with Tracey at the party.
He's getting on very well at school.
How did you get on at the interview?
Parents are always anxious for their children to get on.
I don't know how he's going to get on in life.
We can get on perfectly well without her.
I just can't get along without a secretary.
The heating isn't working; I'll get on to the landlord about it.
He had been stealing money from the company for years before they got on to him.
It's time we got on to the question of costs.
She's never really got on with her sister.
She and her sister have never really got on.
We get along just fine together.
I'm not getting on very fast with this job.
Be quiet and get on with your work.
(informal) Get on with it! We haven't got all day.
If this gets out there'll be trouble.
Will we get the book out by the end of the year?
She managed to get out a few words of thanks.
You ought to get out of the house more.
She screamed at me to get out.
We promised we'd go—we can't get out of it now.
I wish I could get out of going to that meeting.
I can't get out of the habit of waking at six in the morning.
The police finally got a confession out of her.
She seems to get a lot out of life.
He always gets the best out of people.
She can't get over her shyness.
I think the problem can be got over without too much difficulty.
He was disappointed at not getting the job, but he'll get over it.
Just get over yourself and stop moaning!
He needs to grow up a bit and get over himself.
He didn't really get his meaning over to the audience.
I'll be glad to get the exam over and done with.
She knows how to get round her dad.
A clever lawyer might find a way of getting round that clause.
I meant to do the ironing but I didn't get round to it.
I hope to get around to answering your letter next week.
We got through a fortune while we were in New York!
Let's start—there's a lot to get through.
She got all her students through the exam.
They got the bill through Congress.
Thousands of refugees will die if these supplies don't get through to them.
I tried calling you several times but I couldn't get through.
Gulbis has got through to the final.
I find it impossible to get through to her.
The pressure of work is beginning to get to him.
I'm trying to get a team together for Saturday.
We must get together for a drink sometime.
Management should get together with the union.
The class got up when the teacher came in.
He always gets up early.
Could you get me up at 6.30 tomorrow?
She was got up as an Indian princess.
We're getting up a party for her birthday.
We got up to page 72 last lesson.
What on earth will he get up to next?
She's been getting up to her old tricks again!
We set to work on the outside of the house (= for example, painting it).
Without more money, the movie is unlikely to get off the ground.
to get a new company off the ground
Get a load of that dress!
The team have never beaten Germany and they'll be desperate to get that monkey off their backs.
They started shouting at me. It got very heavy.
Where have you been? I've been trying to get hold of you all day.
I need to get hold of Tom's address.
It's almost impossible to get hold of tickets for the final.
He wouldn't allow emotions to get in the way of him doing his job.
By the time this gets into print, they'll already have left the country.
The women had got into the way of going up on the deck every evening.
It's late—we'd better get moving.
Stewart got off the mark with a four.
All this extra work is getting on top of him.
How will I ever get on top of all this work?
I'm not going to let them get one over on me!
Try and get rid of your visitors before I get there.
The problem is getting rid of nuclear waste.
I can't get rid of this headache.
We got rid of all the old furniture.
We discussed it all morning but got nowhere.
Talking to him will get you nowhere.
Don't get me wrong (= do not be offended by what I am going to say), I think he's doing a good job, but…
It's nearly ten o'clock. Let's get started.
The new director has really got things moving.
I was very angry with him, but now I feel I've got it out of my system.
Let's get this straight—you really had no idea where he was?
No, you've got it all wrong. She's his wife.
I must have got the figures wrong.
It's not difficult once you get the hang of it.
Let's get the hell out of here.
When he started looking at his watch, I got the message and left.
He got the nod from the team manager (= he was chosen for the team).
'I pretended that I hadn't heard.' 'I get the picture.'
Let's get this show on the road!
He'd been in a fight and had obviously got the worst of it.
Don't let him get under your skin.
His election campaign is beginning to get up steam.
I managed to get my head down for an hour.
She's dead. I can't get my head round it yet.
I'll get my own back on him one day, I swear!
Choose an essay topic that you can really get your teeth into.
He's covered this case from the get-go.
He said he'd come but he's looking for a get-out.
a get-out clause in the contract
I'll give her what for if she does that again.
I can't get a handle on these sales figures.
She always gets her own way in the end.
After only one game, the chess champion had the measure of his young opponent.
The party needs to keep the major national newspapers onside if it's going to win the next election.
I've got all the information together but it still needs knocking into shape.
Get your skates on or you'll miss the bus.
I have to take a grip on myself, he told himself firmly.
(informal) Get a grip!(= make an effort to control your emotions)
Fans get the hump when the team loses.
You'd better do what he says or he'll turn nasty.
It looks as though the weather is going to turn nasty again.
to make a quick getaway
a getaway car
a romantic weekend getaway in New York
the popular island getaway of Penang
a ghastly crime/murder
The weather was ghastly.
It's all been a ghastly mistake.
her ghastly husband
This lipstick is a ghastly colour.
I felt ghastly the next day.
His face was ghastly white.
The protesters are threatening to gherao the vice chancellor.
a poor kid growing up in the ghetto
The south coast of Spain has become something of a tourist ghetto.
the Warsaw ghetto
Do you believe in ghosts (= believe that they exist)?
the ghost of her father that had come back to haunt her
He looked as if he had seen a ghost (= looked very frightened).
The ghost of anti-Semitism still haunts Europe.
There was a ghost of a smile on his face.
You don't have a ghost of a chance (= you have no chance).
My car finally gave up the ghost.
They ghosted up the smooth waters of the river.
a ghostly figure
ghostly footsteps
the ghostly churchyard
Her memoirs were ghostwritten.
ghoulish laughter
He was posted to GHQ Cairo.
The diet is based mainly on low GI foods.
He's a giant of a man.
the multinational oil giants
literary giants
a giant crab
a giant-size box of tissues
a giant step towards achieving independence
He cowered in the corner, gibbering with terror.
By this time I was a gibbering wreck.
You were talking gibberish in your sleep.
When I looked down from the top floor, I felt giddy.
She was giddy with happiness.
The kids were pushing the roundabout at a giddy speed.
(figurative) the giddy heights of success
Isabel's giddy young sister
She swayed giddily across the dance floor.
Symptoms include nausea and giddiness.
Send it as a GIF.
The watch was a gift from my mother.
Thank you for your generous gift.
a free gift for every reader
the gift of life
(formal) The family made a gift of his paintings to the gallery.
gifts of toys for the children
She has a great gift for music.
He has a gift for making friends easily.
She can pick up a tune instantly on the piano. It's a gift.
Their second goal was an absolute gift.
At £500 it's a gift.
He seems to think he's God's gift to women.
They gifted their opponents a goal.
They gifted a goal to their opponents.
Would you like the chocolates gift-wrapped?
The store offers a gift-wrapping service.
a gifted musician/player, etc.
gifted children
He was gifted with a charming smile.
to do a gig
a White Stripes gig
a gig as a basketball coach
gigahertz
The girls giggled at the joke.
They giggled nervously as they waited for their turn.
She gave a nervous giggle.
Matt collapsed into giggles and hung up the phone.
We only did it for a giggle.
I get the giggles when I'm nervous.
She had a fit of the giggles and had to leave the room.
The golden light gilded the sea.
the gilded youth (= rich, upper-class young people) of the Edwardian era
I was stuffed to the gills with chocolate cake.
gilt lettering
gilt-edged securities/shares/stocks (= investments that are considered safe because they have been sold by the government)
(figurative) eyes like gimlets (= looking very hard at things and noticing every detail)
Gimme back my bike!
a promotional/publicity/sales gimmick
a gimmicky idea
I'll have a gin and tonic, please.
a teaspoon of ground ginger
(BrE) ginger biscuits
ginger hair
a ginger cat
a gingerbread man (= a gingerbread biscuit/cookie in the shape of a person)
He opened the box gingerly and looked inside.
a blue and white gingham dress
They began gyrating to the music.
The leaves gyrated slowly to the ground.
As the lead singer gyrated his hips, the crowd screamed wildly.
The company is girding its loins for a plunge into the overseas market.
carefully tended lawns set in a girdle of trees
A chain of volcanoes girdles the Pacific.
a baby girl
a little girl of six
Hello, girls and boys!
Our youngest girl is at college.
Alex is not interested in girls yet.
He married the girl next door.
an office girl
I'm having a night out with the girls.
Good morning, girls!
How is the old girl these days?
I had lunch with a girlfriend.
girlie magazines
girlie games
a girlish giggle
a girlish figure
to pay by giro
a giro credit/payment/transfer
It is easy for families to run out of money before the weekly giro arrives.
a man of enormous girth
a tree one metre in girth/with a girth of one metre
to get (= understand) the gist of an argument
I missed the beginning of the lecture—can you give me the gist of what he said?
I'm afraid I don't quite follow your gist (= what you really mean).
a Guide to Family Health
Let's have a look at the TV guide and see what's on.
a guide to Italy
travel guides
a tour guide
We hired a local guide to get us across the mountains.
a spiritual guide
As a rough guide, allow half a cup of rice per person.
I let my feelings be my guide.
She guided us through the busy streets to the cathedral.
We were guided around the museums.
He was always guided by his religious beliefs.
The health and safety officer will guide you through the safety procedures.
She took her arm and guided her across the busy road.
He guided her hand to his face.
She had feelings of guilt about leaving her children and going to work.
Many survivors were left with a sense of guilt.
a guilt complex (= an exaggerated sense of guilt )
His guilt was proved beyond all doubt by the prosecution.
an admission of guilt
The investigation will try to find out where the guilt for the disaster really lies.
I only went because she guilted me into it.
Give the letter to your mother when you've read it.
She gave her ticket to the woman at the check-in desk.
Give your mother the letter.
They were all given a box to carry.
What are you giving your father for his birthday?
She was given a huge bunch of flowers.
Did you give the waiter a tip?
We don't usually give presents to people at work.
They say it's better to give than to receive.
They were all thirsty so I gave them a drink.
Give me your name and address.
We've been given a 2% pay increase.
I was hoping you would give me a job.
He was given a new heart in a five-hour operation.
She wants a job that gives her more responsibility.
Can I give you a ride to the station?
They couldn't give me any more information.
I'll give you (= allow you to have) ten minutes to prepare your answer.
Don't give me any of that backchat (= don't be rude).
He gives Italian lessons to his colleagues.
The reforms should give a better chance to the less able children.
We need your help—please give generously.
They both gave regularly to charity.
I gave a small donation.
How much will you give me for the car?
I'd give anything to see him again.
I gave £50 for the lot.
I gave the matter a lot of thought.
I gave a lot of thought to the matter.
The government has given top priority to reforming the tax system.
The judge gave him a nine-month suspended sentence.
We discussed what punishment should be given to the boys.
You've given me your cold.
She'd given the bug to all her colleagues.
She gave a reading from her latest volume of poetry.
The President will be giving a press conference this afternoon.
She gave a shrug of her shoulders (= shrugged).
He turned to us and gave a big smile (= smiled broadly).
She looked up from her work and gave a yawn (= yawned).
He gave a loud cry (= cried out loudly) and fell to the floor.
Her work has given pleasure to (= pleased) millions of readers.
He gave her a kiss (= kissed her).
I have to admit that the news gave us a shock (= shocked us).
We'll give you all the help we can (= help you in every way we can).
All that driving has given me a headache.
Go for a walk. It'll give you an appetite.
Give me a call tomorrow.
I'll give you a ring.
She had given the assignment an A.
I give it ten out of ten for originality.
That marriage won't last. I'll give them two years, at the outside.
The umpire gave the ball out.
The branch began to give under his weight.
(figurative) We can't go on like this— something's got to give.
You're going to have to give a little.
You're going to have to learn to give and take.
She can give as good as she gets.
Give it up for Eddie Murphy!
It'll take about three weeks, give or take a day or so.
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Geoff Ogilby!
The bride was given away by her father.
He gave away most of his money to charity.
(informal) Check out the prices of our pizzas—we're virtually giving them away!
The mayor gave away the prizes at the school sports day.
They've given away two goals already.
She gave away state secrets to the enemy.
It was supposed to be a surprise but the children gave the game away.
His voice gave him away (= showed who he really was).
Could you give me back my pen?
Could you give me my pen back?
I picked it up and gave it back to him.
(informal) Give it me back!
The operation gave him back the use of his legs.
The rebels were forced to give in.
The authorities have shown no signs of giving in to the kidnappers' demands.
Please give your work in before Monday.
The flowers gave off a fragrant perfume.
The bedroom windows give on to the street.
This door gives onto the hall.
After a month their food supplies gave out.
Her patience finally gave out.
One of the plane's engines gave out in mid-air.
Her legs gave out and she collapsed.
The teacher gave out the exam papers.
The radiator gives out a lot of heat.
Give over, Chris! You're hurting me.
Give over complaining!
The gallery is given over to British art.
They gave up without a fight.
She doesn't give up easily.
I give up—tell me the answer.
There you are at last! We'd given you up.
We hadn't heard from him for so long, we'd given him up for dead.
Why don't you give him up?
She didn't give up work when she had the baby.
We'd given up hope of ever having children.
You ought to give up smoking.
I gave up my weekend to help him paint his apartment.
We had to give our passports up to the authorities.
He gave up his seat to a pregnant woman (= stood up to allow her to sit down).
After a week on the run he gave himself up to the police.
His teachers seem to have given up on him.
The shoes may seem tight at first, but the leather has plenty of give in it.
to encourage a lively give and take
Preference will be given to graduates of this university.
She gave full vent to her feelings in a violent outburst.
My back's been giving me a lot of trouble lately.
The children didn't give me any trouble at all when we were out.
Every player gave a hundred per cent tonight.
Houses and factories gave place to open fields as the train gathered speed.
I gotta give props to the bass player.
The novel's success gave rise to a number of sequels.
They really gave me a hard time at the interview.
I'll give you a ring tomorrow.
Give me a shout when you're ready.
The question was vague, giving the interviewee enough rope to hang herself.
My back's been giving me gyp lately.
He used to give his mother hell when he was a teenager.
My new shoes are giving me hell (= are hurting me).
Dad will give us hell when he sees that mess.
Who's been putting ideas into his head?
They gave him the push after only six weeks.
He was devastated when his girlfriend gave him the push.
Her dogs have the run of the house.
She gave the room a quick once-over before the guests arrived.
We've been given the nod to expand the business.
I hope he'll give the nod to the plan.
I think I'll give badminton a miss tonight.
That's not the right way to hold a pair of scissors.
(informal, disapproving) That's no way to speak to your mother!
I'm not happy with this way of working.
It's not what you say, it's the way that you say it.
I hate the way she always criticizes me.
I told you we should have done it my way!
Infectious diseases can be acquired in several ways.
I generally get what I want one way or another (= by some means).
They grinned at her in a friendly way.
It was not his way to admit that he had made a mistake.
Don't worry, if she seems quiet— it's just her way.
He was showing off, as is the way with adolescent boys.
After ten years I'm used to the strange British ways.
the best/quickest/shortest way from A to B
Can you tell me the way to Leicester Square?
to ask sb the way
We went the long way round.
Get out of my way! I'm in a hurry.
Riot police with shields were blocking the demonstrators' way.
We fought our way through the dense vegetation.
Unfortunately they ran into a snowstorm along the way.
There's a way across the fields.
106 Headley Way
Which way did they go?
We just missed a car coming the other way.
Look both ways (= look left and right) before crossing the road.
Make sure that sign's the right way up.
Kids were running this way and that (= in all directions).
They decided to split the money four ways (= between four different people).
(figurative) Which way (= for which party) are you going to vote?
the way in/out
They escaped out the back way.
A little way up on the left is the Museum of Modern Art.
September was a long way off.
(figurative) The area's wine industry still has a way to go to full maturity.
You came all this way to see us?
(NAmE, informal) We still have a ways to go.
I think he lives somewhere over Greenwich way.
I'll stop by and see you next time I'm down your way.
I have changed in every way.
It's been quite a day, one way and another (= for several reasons).
The economy's in a bad way.
I don't know how we're going to manage, the way things are.
The pillars gave way and a section of the roof collapsed.
Her numb leg gave way beneath her and she stumbled clumsily.
He refused to give way on any of the points.
Give way to traffic already on the roundabout.
Flinging herself on the bed, she gave way to helpless misery.
The storm gave way to bright sunshine.
The new law goes a long way towards solving the problem.
He would always go out of his way to be friendly towards her.
It's best to let her go her own way if you don't want a fight.
I'm going your way—I'll walk with you.
By the third round he knew the fight was going his way.
Oh OK, then. Have it your own way.
First love affairs have a way of not working out.
He has a way with small children.
She has a way with words (= is very good at expressing herself).
You can't have it both ways. If you can afford to go out all the time, you can afford to pay off some of your debts.
With the first goal he used his head in more ways than one.
I expect she does love you in her own way.
In a way it was one of our biggest mistakes.
You'll have to move—you're in my way.
I left them alone, as I felt I was in the way.
There isn't much in the way of entertainment in this place.
Prison officers know what's going on, but look the other way.
We lost our way in the dark.
I feel that the project has lost its way.
Will you be able to make your own way to the airport (= get there without help, a ride, etc.)?
Is this your plan for making your way in the world?
Make way for the Lord Mayor!
Tropical forest is felled to make way for grassland.
I'd better be on my way (= I must leave) soon.
The letter should be on its way to you.
He stopped for breakfast on the way.
She grabbed her camera and bag on her way out.
They've got three kids and one on the way.
I think it should go on the other way round.
I didn't leave you. It was the other way round (= you left me).
I moved my legs out of the way so that she could get past.
I didn't say anything until Dad was out of the way.
Our region is poised for growth once the election is out of the way.
She had obviously noticed nothing out of the way.
I'd love a ride home—if it's not out of your way.
Preparations are well under way for a week of special events in May.
The rich and powerful make the decisions—that's the way of the world.
ways and means of raising money
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach (= by giving him good food).
Good work, guys! Way to go!
She worked her way through the pile of documents.
He worked his way up from messenger boy to account executive.
I'm finding his latest novel very hard going.
We go back a long way, he and I.
She seems to make her money go a long way.
A small amount of this paint goes a long way (= covers a large area).
(ironic) I find that a little of Jerry's company can go a long way (= I quickly get tired of being with him).
We've come a long way since the early days of the project.
She still has a long way to go before she's fully fit.
In the ordinary way, she's not a nervous person.
This decision paved the way for changes in employment rights for women.
The bridge is still not paying its way.
She picked her way delicately over the rough ground.
These negotiations are intended to smooth the path to a peace treaty.
He always does the work, but in his own sweet time.
I managed to talk my way out of having to give a speech.
She finished the race way ahead of the other runners.
I must be going home; it's way past my bedtime.
The price is way above what we can afford.
They live way out in the suburbs.
This skirt is way (= a lot) too short.
I guessed that there would be a hundred people there, but I was way out (= wrong by a large amount).
Things just got way difficult.
I'm way glad to hear that.
I first met him way back in the 80s.
They are not prepared to give ground on tax cuts.
The Conservatives lost a lot of ground to the Liberal Democrats at the election.
Give my love to Mary when you see her.
Bob sends his love.
She pretended she wasn't excited but the expression on her face was a dead (= obvious) giveaway.
They were to meet at a given time and place.
We can find out how much money is spent on food in any given period.
Given his age (= considering how old he is), he's remarkably active.
Given her interest in children, teaching seems the right job for her.
It was surprising the government was re-elected, given that they had raised taxes so much.
They are very generous givers to charity.
glacé fruits
glacé cherries
the glacial period (= the time when much of the northern half of the world was covered by ice)
a glacial landscape
glacial deposits/erosion
glacial winds/temperatures
Her expression was glacial.
Relations between the two countries had always been glacial.
'I passed the test!' 'I'm so glad (for you).'
'He doesn't need the pills any more.' 'I'm glad about that.'
I'm glad to hear you're feeling better.
I'm glad (that) you're feeling better.
I'm so glad (that) you're safe!
I'm glad to meet you. I've heard a lot about you.
I've never been so glad to see anyone in my life!
She was very glad of her warm coat in the biting wind.
I'd be glad of your help.
I'd be glad if you could help me.
I'd be glad to lend you the money.
If you'd like me to help you, I'd be only too glad to.
glad news/tidings
Most teachers, I'm glad to say, take their jobs very seriously.
The sight of the flowers gladdened her heart.
It gladdened him to see them all enjoying themselves.
gladiatorial combat
I would gladly pay extra for a good seat.
When I offered her my seat, she accepted it gladly.
Television tends to glamorize violence.
glamorous movie stars
a glamorous job
glamorously dressed
hopeful young actors and actresses dazzled by the glamour of Hollywood
Now that she's a flight attendant, foreign travel has lost its glamour for her.
Ireland's top fashion model added a touch of glamour to the event.
She glanced at her watch.
He glanced around the room.
I glanced up quickly to see who had come in.
I only had time to glance at the newspapers.
He glanced briefly down the list of names.
She glanced through the report.
The ball glanced off the post into the net.
to take/have a glance at the newspaper headlines
a cursory/brief/casual/furtive glance
The sisters exchanged glances (= looked at each other).
She shot him a sideways glance.
He walked away without a backward glance.
She stole a glance (= looked secretly) at her watch.
to strike somebody a glancing blow
a snake's poison glands
Her glands are swollen.
glandular tissue
He didn't shout, he just glared at me silently.
the glare of the sun
The rabbit was caught in the glare of the car's headlights.
These sunglasses are designed to reduce glare.
(figurative) The divorce was conducted in the full glare of publicity (= with continuous attention from newspapers and television).
to give sb a hostile glare
a glaring error/omission/inconsistency/injustice
the most glaring example of this problem
glaring eyes
glaringly obvious
a sheet/pane of glass
frosted/toughened glass
a glass bottle/dish/roof
I cut myself on a piece of broken glass.
The vegetables are grown under glass (= in a greenhouse ).
a sherry glass
a wine glass
a glass of sherry/wine/water, etc.
He drank three whole glasses.
We keep all our glass and china in this cupboard.
She has a fine collection of Bohemian glass.
In case of emergency, break the glass and press the button.
a pair of glasses
dark glasses
I wear glasses for driving.
a glassed-in pool
a glassy lake
a glassy material
glassy eyes
a glassy look/stare
He looked flushed and glassy-eyed.
A lot of people's eyes glaze over if you say you are a feminist.
'I'm feeling rather tired,' he said, his eyes glazing.
to glaze a window/house
a glazed door
Glaze the pie with beaten egg.
glazed tiles
(NAmE) a glazed doughnut
eyes glazed with boredom
The moonlight gleamed on the water.
Her eyes gleamed in the dark.
The sun was shining and the sky was blue.
Moonlight gleamed on the water.
The end of his cigarette glowed red.
The diamonds sparkled in the light.
The road glistened wet after the rain.
Everything seemed to shimmer in the heat.
The ceiling of the cathedral glittered with gold.
the superficial glitter of show business
Stars sparkled in the sky.
Stars twinkled in the sky.
The blade of the knife glinted in the darkness.
The house was gleaming with fresh white paint.
Her teeth gleamed white against the tanned skin of her face.
His eyes gleamed with amusement.
Amusement gleamed in his eyes.
the gleam of moonlight on the water
A few gleams of sunshine lit up the gloomy afternoon.
I saw the gleam of the knife as it flashed through the air.
a faint gleam of hope
a serious book with an occasional gleam of humour
a gleam of triumph in her eyes
a mischievous gleam in his eye
The gleam in his eye made her uncomfortable (= as if he was planning sth secret or unpleasant).
gleaming white teeth
These figures have been gleaned from a number of studies.
He rubbed his hands in glee as he thought of all the money he would make.
She couldn't disguise her glee at their embarrassment.
a gleeful laugh
a glib salesman
glib answers
Swans went gliding past.
The skaters were gliding over the ice.
An eagle was gliding high overhead.
The plane managed to glide down to the runway.
the graceful glide of a skater
We could see a glimmer of light on the far shore.
a glimmer of hope
I caught the glimmer of a smile in his eyes.
the glimmering of an idea
The candles glimmered in the corner.
(figurative) Amusement glimmered in his eyes.
He caught a glimpse of her in the crowd.
I came up on deck to get my first glimpse of the island.
a fascinating glimpse into life in the ocean
The programme gives us a rare glimpse of a great artist at work.
Suddenly she glimpsed the truth about her sister.
The sea glinted in the moonlight.
The sun glinted on the windows.
Her eyes glinted angrily.
Hostility glinted in his eyes.
the glint of the sun on the water
golden glints in her red hair
She saw a glint of silver in the grass.
He had a wicked glint in his eye.
a glint of anger
Her eyes were glistening with tears.
Sweat glistened on his forehead.
The water glittered in the sunlight.
His eyes glittered with greed.
the glitter of diamonds
There was a triumphant glitter in his eyes.
the superficial glitter of show business
gold/silver glitter
He has a glittering career ahead of him.
a glittering occasion/ceremony
a glittering array of stars
glittering jewels
a glittery suit
the glitz and glamour of the music scene
a glitzy, Hollywood-style occasion
She was still gloating over her rival's disappointment.
a gloating look
thick globs of paint on the floor
global issues
The commission is calling for a global ban on whaling.
the company's domestic and global markets
We need to take a more global approach to the problem.
global searches on the database
They sent a global email to all staff.
We need to start thinking globally.
tourists from every corner of the globe
a globetrotting journalist
a globule of fat
As a glocal enterprise, we market different products in different parts of the world.
Kids soon glom onto the latest trend.
The gloom deepened as the election results came in.
We watched the boats come back in the gathering gloom.
a gloomy room/atmosphere
It was a wet and gloomy day.
a gloomy expression
We sat in gloomy silence.
a gloomy picture of the country's economic future
Suddenly, the future didn't look so gloomy after all.
He stared gloomily at the phone.
Olympic glory in the 100 metres
I do all the work and he gets all the glory.
She wanted to enjoy her moment of glory.
He came home a rich man, covered in glory.
'Glory to God in the highest'
The city was spread out beneath us in all its glory.
The house has now been restored to its former glory.
The temple is one of the glories of ancient Greece.
Her long black hair is her crowning glory (= most impressive feature).
She gloried in her new-found independence.
The restaurant was no more than a glorified fast-food cafe.
He denies that the movie glorifies violence.
the glorification of war
a glorious victory
a glorious chapter in our country's history
a glorious sunset
a glorious trip to Rome
They had three weeks of glorious sunshine.
paper with a high gloss on one side
The gel gives your hair a gloss.
You can have the photos with either a gloss or a matt finish.
lip gloss
two coats of gloss
Beneath the gloss of success was a tragic private life.
This scandal has taken the gloss off the occasion.
The director puts a Hollywood gloss on the civil war.
to gloss over a problem
He glossed over any splits in the party.
glossy hair
a glossy brochure/magazine (= printed on shiny paper)
the glossy world of fashion
a pair of gloves
rubber gloves
The embers still glowed in the hearth.
The strap has a fluorescent coating that glows in the dark.
A cigarette end glowed red in the darkness.
Her cheeks were glowing.
His face glowed with embarrassment.
She was positively glowing with pride.
He gave her a warm glowing smile.
The countryside glowed with autumn colours.
The brick walls glowed red in the late afternoon sun.
The city was just a red glow on the horizon.
There was no light except for the occasional glow of a cigarette.
The fresh air had brought a healthy glow to her cheeks.
the glow of autumn leaves
When she looked at her children, she felt a glow of pride.
a glowing account/report/review
He spoke of her performance in the film in glowing terms (= praising her highly).
a tube of glue
He sticks to her like glue (= never leaves her).
She glued the label onto the box.
Glue the two pieces of cardboard together.
Make sure the edges are glued down.
She glugged down a glass of water.
The players sat there with glum looks on their faces.
The three of us sat glumly looking out to sea.
a glut of cheap DVDs on the market
The market has been glutted with foreign cars.
We sell a range of gluten-free products (= not containing gluten ).
glutinous rice
GM foods or 'Frankenstein foods' as they are popularly called
a gnarled oak/branch/trunk
gnarled hands
Wow, man! That's totally gnarly!
He'll be gnashing his teeth when he hears that we lost the contract.
The dog was gnawing a bone.
Rats had gnawed through the cable.
She gnawed at her fingernails.
(figurative) Self-doubt began to gnaw away at her confidence.
The problem had been gnawing at him for months.
gnawing doubts
She went into her room and shut the door behind her.
He goes to work by bus.
I have to go to Rome on business.
She has gone to China (= is now in China or is on her way there).
She has been to China (= she went to China and has now returned).
I think you should go to the doctor's.
Are you going home for Christmas?
She has gone to see her sister this weekend.
I'll go and answer the door.
Go and get me a drink!
Go ask your mom!
Are you going to Dave's party?
Who else is going?
His dog goes everywhere with him.
He's going too fast.
We had gone about fifty miles when the car broke down.
The car went skidding off the road into a ditch.
She went sobbing up the stairs.
She crashed into a waiter and his tray of drinks went flying.
I must be going now.
They came at six and went at nine.
Has she gone yet?
He's been gone an hour (= he left an hour ago).
When does the train go?
to go on a journey/tour/trip/cruise
Richard has gone on leave for two weeks.
(BrE) I have to go to hospital for an operation.
(NAmE) I have to go to the hospital.
to go to prison (= to be sent there as punishment for a crime)
Do you go to church (= regularly attend church services)?
She went on Facebook and changed her relationship status.
To find out what the terms mean, go to the glossary.
to go for a walk/drive/swim/run
Shall we go for a drink (= at a pub or bar) after work?
I have to go shopping this afternoon.
We're going sailing on Saturday.
I want this memo to go to all managers.
I want a rope that will go from the top window to the ground.
Where does this road go?
This dictionary goes on the top shelf.
Where do you want the piano to go (= be put)?
My clothes won't all go in that one suitcase.
He tried to push his hand through the gap but it wouldn't go.
3 into 12 goes 4 times.
7 into 15 won't go.
(NAmE) 7 into 15 doesn't go.
7 won't go into 15.
'How did your interview go?' 'It went very well, thank you.'
Did everything go smoothly?
How's it going (= is your life enjoyable, successful, etc. at the moment)?
The way things are going the company will be bankrupt by the end of the year.
She went to sleep.
That colour has gone out of fashion.
to go bald/blind/mad/bankrupt, etc.
Her hair is going grey.
This milk has gone sour.
The children went wild with excitement.
to go naked/barefoot
She cannot bear the thought of children going hungry.
Police are worried that many crimes go unreported.
How does that song go?
I forget how the next line goes.
The story goes that she's been married five times.
The gun went 'bang'.
She went like this with her hand.
The whistle went for the end of the game.
I asked 'How much?' and he goes, 'Fifty' and I go, 'Fifty? You must be joking!'
I'll say 'One, two, three, go!' as a signal for you to start.
As soon as he gets here we're ready to go.
This clock doesn't go.
Has your headache gone yet?
I left my bike outside the library and when I came out again it had gone.
The old sofa will have to go.
He's useless—he'll have to go.
Her sight is beginning to go.
His mind is going (= he is losing his mental powers).
I was driving home when my brakes went.
You can't take your money with you when you go.
I don't know where the money goes!
Most of my salary goes on the rent.
The money will go to finance a new community centre.
We won't let the house go for less than $200 000.
There was usually some bread going cheap (= being sold cheaply) at the end of the day.
He's offered £3 000 for the car and I don't think he'll go any higher.
I'll go to $1 000 but that's my limit.
This all goes to prove my theory.
It (= what has just happened) just goes to show you can't always tell how people are going to react.
There just aren't any jobs going in this area.
Hasn't the time gone quickly?
Half an hour went past while we were sitting there.
Do you need to go, Billy?
Trust him to go and mess things up!
Why did you have to go and upset your mother like that?
You've really gone and done it (= done sth very stupid) now!
If the bank won't lend us the money it's no go, I'm afraid.
Don't ask me to choose. I don't want to go there.
'There was a problem with his parents, wasn't there?' 'Don't even go there!'
I only have one exam to go.
Two pizzas to go.
Halt, who goes there?
Despite the threat of war, people went about their business as usual.
You're not going about the job in the right way.
How should I go about finding a job?
He went after the burglars.
She left the room in tears so I went after her.
We're both going after the same job.
The jury's verdict went against him.
He would not go against his parents' wishes.
Paying for hospital treatment goes against her principles.
His thinking goes against all logic.
I'll go ahead and tell them you're on the way.
The building of the new bridge will go ahead as planned.
'May I start now?' 'Yes, go ahead.'
The government intends to go ahead with its tax cutting plans.
He made up the story as he went along.
Things are going along nicely.
I don't go along with her views on private medicine.
to go round in a circle
There aren't enough chairs to go around.
She often goes around barefoot.
It's unprofessional to go round criticizing your colleagues.
There's a rumour going around that they're having an affair.
I went round to the post office.
I'm going around to my sister's (= her house) later.
They went at each other furiously.
They went at the job as if their lives depended on it.
Just go away!
Go away and think about it, then let me know.
They've gone away for a few days.
I'm going away on business.
The smell still hasn't gone away.
Dave and I go back twenty years.
She doesn't want to go back to her husband (= to live with him again).
This toaster will have to go back (= be taken back to the shop/store where it was bought) —it's faulty.
Of course we want to go back some day—it's our country, our real home.
Can I go back to what you said at the beginning of the meeting?
Once you have made this decision, there will be no going back (= you will not be able to change your mind).
Their family goes back to the time of the Pilgrim Fathers.
He never goes back on his word (= never fails to do what he has said he will do).
The kids go back to school next week.
She's decided to go back to teaching.
The present crisis is worse than any that have gone before.
My application goes before the planning committee next week.
This year's sales figures go beyond all our expectations (= are much better than we thought they would be).
Things will get easier as time goes by.
The weeks went slowly by.
That's a good rule to go by.
If past experience is anything to go by, they'll be late.
She tripped and went down with a bump.
A glass of wine would go down very nicely (= I would very much like one).
The price of oil is going down.
Oil is going down in price.
The neighbourhood has gone down a lot recently.
The system is going down in ten minutes.
You really don't know what's going down?
It all goes down (= she writes it all) in her notebook.
He will go down in history as a great statesman.
Italy went down to Brazil by three goals to one.
They've gone down to Brighton for a couple of days.
The suggestion didn't go down very well with her boss.
Our youngest boy has gone down with chickenpox.
She went for him with a knife.
What I said about Peter goes for you, too.
They have a high level of unemployment—but the same goes for many other countries.
She's gone for some milk.
She goes for tall slim men.
I don't really go for modern art.
Go for it, John! You know you can beat him.
It sounds a great idea. Go for it!
Let's go in, it's getting cold.
She's going in for the Cambridge First Certificate.
She doesn't go in for team sports.
My brothers are opening a garage and they want me to go in with them.
The car skidded and went into a tree.
The plane went into a nosedive.
to go into the Army/the Church/Parliament
to go into teaching
He went into a long explanation of the affair.
We need to go into the question of costs.
More government money needs to go into the project.
Years of work went into researching the book.
She went off to get a drink.
The gun went off by accident.
The bomb went off in a crowded street.
Suddenly the lights went off.
The heating goes off at night.
Hasn't the baby gone off yet?
Her books have gone off in recent years.
The meeting went off well.
Jane seems to be going off Paul.
I've gone off beer.
He went off with his best friend's wife.
He went off with $10 000 of the company's money.
She doesn't go on until Act 2.
Walcott went on in place of Rooney just before half-time.
Suddenly all the lights went on.
She became more and more talkative as the evening went on.
What's going on here?
This cannot be allowed to go on.
How much longer will this hot weather go on for?
We can't go on like this —we seem to be always arguing.
She hesitated for a moment and then went on.
'You know,' he went on, 'I think my brother could help you.'
Go on! Have another drink!
Go on—jump!
You go on ahead—I'll catch you up in a few minutes.
The police don't have much to go on.
He went on and on about how poor he was.
She does go on sometimes!
She goes on at him continually.
That's enough for now—let's go on with it tomorrow.
He said nothing but just went on working.
Let's go on to the next item on the agenda.
The book goes on to describe his experiences in the army.
She goes out a lot.
He goes out drinking most evenings.
Have the invitations gone out yet?
Word went out that the director had resigned.
She went out of the tournament in the first round.
Those skirts went out years ago.
All the fight seemed to go out of him.
Tom has been going out with Lucy for six weeks.
How long have Tom and Lucy been going out together?
Go over your work before you hand it in.
He went over the events of the day in his mind (= thought about them carefully).
He went over and shook hands with his guests.
Many Irish people went over to America during the famine.
We are now going over to the news desk for an important announcement.
Two Conservative MPs have gone over to the Liberal Democrats.
The news of her promotion went over well with her colleagues.
The deal did not go through.
I always start the day by going through my email.
She went through the company's accounts, looking for evidence of fraud.
Let's go through the arguments again.
Could we go through (= practise) Act 2 once more?
Certain formalities have to be gone through before you can emigrate.
She's been going through a bad patch recently.
He's amazingly cheerful considering all he's had to go through.
The boys went through two whole loaves of bread.
She decided not to go through with (= not to have) the operation.
Proceeds from the concert will go to charity.
All her property went to her eldest son (= when she died).
The money will go towards a new car.
Part of my pay cheque went towards buying an MP3 player.
The firm will go under unless business improves.
New office buildings are going up everywhere.
The whole building went up in flames.
The price of cigarettes is going up.
Cigarettes are going up in price.
When are you next going up to Scotland?
We went up to London last weekend.
A car goes with the job.
You're offering £500? I think we can go with that.
Does this jacket go with this skirt?
Those colours don't really go (together).
Disease often goes with poverty.
Disease and poverty often go together.
There wasn't time for breakfast, so I had to go without.
How long can a human being go (= survive) without sleep?
She went without eating for three days.
Whose go is it?
It's your go.
'How much is it to play?' 'It's 50p a go.'
Can I have a go on your new bike?
It took three goes to get it right.
I doubt if he'll listen to advice from me, but I'll give it a go (= I'll try but I don't think I will succeed).
Mary's always got plenty of go.
There were about seven of them standing round him, all waiting to have a go.
'I can't start the engine.' 'Let me have a go.'
I'll have a go at fixing it tonight.
The boss had a go at me for being late for work.
The award-winning novelist often has three or four books on the go at once.
I'd rather do the journey in one go, and not stop on the way.
They ate the packet of biscuits all in one go.
We've had a few problems in our marriage, but we're both determined to make a go of it.
Leave go of my arm—you're hurting me!
Don't let the rope go.
Don't let go of the rope.
Let go! You're hurting me!
It's time to let the past go.
It's time to let go of the past.
a discovery that made medical history
That's another brilliant idea down the pan.
The education system is going down the tubes.
Since her appointment the department has gone from strength to strength.
We go halves on all the bills.
After that, things started to go haywire.
As the wedding approached, the whole family went into overdrive.
The company has gone badly off the rails in recent years.
She did well this year and next year she hopes to go one better.
Don't go overboard on fitness.
The balloon went pop.
He went postal when he found out.
a red car
The lights (= traffic lights) changed to red before I could get across.
Her eyes were red from crying.
He stammered something and went very red in the face.
(BrE) She went red as a beetroot.
(NAmE) She went red as a beet.
a red-haired girl
red deer
red states/counties
You may notice redness and swelling after the injection.
She often wears red.
the reds and browns of the woods in the fall (= of the leaves)
I've marked the corrections in red (= in red ink).
The traffic lights were on red.
Would you prefer red or white?
an Italian red
The government is going slow on tax reforms.
She goes to extraordinary lengths to keep her private life private.
The couple went to great pains to keep their plans secret.
Her handwriting's gone to pot since she started using a computer all the time.
They let the house go to rack and ruin.
That glass of wine has gone straight to my head.
The whole house went up in smoke.
My rucksack seems to have gone walkabout.
I hope you enjoy your holiday. Go well!
Of course I'll help you. That goes without saying.
If you do what she tells you, you won't go far wrong.
Where did we go wrong with those kids (= what mistakes did we make for them to behave so badly)?
My watch keeps going wrong.
The relationship started to go wrong when they moved abroad.
What else can go wrong (= what other problems are we going to have)?
The council has given the go-ahead to start building.
a go-ahead company
to act as (a) go-between
a go-go dancer
the go-go years of the 1990s
He's the president's go-to guy on Asian politics.
In 2008 economic growth went into reverse.
After his divorce, he let himself go to seed.
She went cheerfully about her work.
Their relationship soon went sour.
Goaded beyond endurance, she turned on him and hit out.
He finally goaded her into answering his question.
The boxers were goaded on by the shrieking crowd.
He headed the ball into an open goal (= one that had nobody defending it).
Who is in goal (= is the goalkeeper ) for Arsenal?
The winning goal was scored by Hill.
Liverpool won by three goals to one.
United conceded two goals in the first half.
a penalty goal
to work towards a goal
to achieve/attain a goal
You need to set yourself some long-term goals.
Our ultimate goal must be the preservation of the environment.
goalkeeping techniques
(BrE) The match ended in a goalless draw.
a mountain goat
goat's milk/cheese
Shut your gob!(= a rude way of telling sb to be quiet)
Gobs of spittle ran down his chin.
great gobs of cash
gobbets of food
Don't gobble your food like that!
They gobbled down all the sandwiches.
Hotel costs gobbled up most of their holiday budget.
It's all gobbledegook to me.
Do you believe in God?
Good luck and God bless you.
the Son of God (= Christ)
Mars was the Roman god of war.
the rain god
Greek gods
To her fans she's a god.
Money is his god.
God, what a stupid thing to do!
I'll be back next week, God willing.
It is unfair to ask doctors to play God and end someone's life.
I wish to God you'd learn to pay attention!
God help us if this doesn't work.
Honest to God, Mary, I'm not joking.
God knows what else they might find.
'Where are they?' 'Goodness knows.'
She ought to pass the exam—goodness knows she's been working hard enough.
What in God's name was that noise?
Where in the name of Heaven have you been?
Please God, don't let him be dead.
Thank God you're safe!
'Thank goodness for that!' she said with a sigh of relief.
He made a God-awful mess of it!
a God-given talent
What gives you a God-given right to know all my business?
The god-men in the village claim to have special powers.
There's no need to be so goddam rude!
Where's that goddamned pen?
Diana, the goddess of hunting
a screen goddess (= a female film/movie star)
He's the godfather of punk.
I can't stand living in this godforsaken hole.
a godless generation/world
his godlike beauty
a godly man
This new benefit has come as a godsend for low-income families.
a cinema-goer
a moviegoer
They call me the gofer—go for this, go for that…
a pair of swimming/ski/safety goggles
We were all sad at her going.
Walking four miles in an hour is pretty good going for me.
She had her own company by 25—not bad going!
It was hard going getting up at five every morning.
The going is good to firm.
Don't you think we should quit while the going is good?
She's a bit heavy going.
I found the course rather heavy going.
the theatre-going public
They pay slightly more than the going rate.
My grandmother is 90 and still going strong.
The garage gave the car a thorough going-over.
The gang gave him a real going-over.
There were some strange goings-on next door last night.
a gold bracelet/ring/watch, etc.
18-carat gold
the country's gold reserves
made of solid/pure gold
His wife was dripping with (= wearing a lot of) gold.
I love the reds and golds of autumn.
The team look set to win Olympic gold.
He won three golds and a bronze.
He has struck gold with his latest novel.
A good mechanic is worth his weight in gold.
The company name was spelled out in gold letters.
Tickets for the final are like gold dust.
The creators of the game recently won a high-profile lawsuit against a gold farming company.
an Olympic gold medal winner
an Olympic gold medallist
This restaurant is a potential gold mine.
Articles like his are the gold standard of news reporting.
gold-plated earrings
a golden crown
golden hair
miles of golden beaches
golden memories
Businesses have a golden opportunity to expand into new markets.
Hollywood's golden boy
the golden age of cinema
An increase in crime could kill the golden goose of tourism.
Queen Victoria's Golden Jubilee celebrations
a party to mark the company's golden jubilee
The golden rule in tennis is to keep your eye on the ball.
The couple celebrated their golden wedding in January.
Living in this goldfish bowl of publicity would crack the strongest marriage.
The planet is in what astronomers call the Goldilocks zone: neither too hot, nor too cold.
He enjoyed a round of golf on a Sunday morning.
a set of golf clubs
Pine Ridge Golf Club
We're going for lunch at the golf club.
a golfing holiday
a week's golfing with friends
a Goliath of a man
a Goliath of the computer industry
Golly, you're early!
'Where's the coffee?' 'It's all gone.'
'Is Tom here?' 'No, he was gone before I arrived.'
The days are gone when you could leave your door unlocked at night.
She's seven months gone.
How far gone are you?
It's gone six already.
We were frantic. We thought you were a goner.
What's she gonna do now?
a good book
good food
The piano was in good condition.
Your work is just not good enough.
The results were pretty good.
Sorry, my English is not very good.
This is as good a place as any to spend the night.
You'll never marry her—she's much too good for you.
Did you have a good time in London?
It's good to see you again.
This is very good news.
Let's hope we have good weather tomorrow.
We are still friends, though, which is good.
It's a good thing (= it's lucky) you came early.
Thank you, good question.
Yes, that's a good point.
I have good reason to be suspicious.
What a good idea!
The play had good reviews.
The hotel has a good reputation.
He comes from a good family.
to be a good actor/cook
to be good at languages/your job
Nick has always been good at finding cheap flights.
She's good with her hands (= able to make things, etc.).
He's very good with children.
She has tried to lead a good life.
a good deed
Giving her that money was a good thing to do.
It is good practice to supply a written report to the buyer.
She was a good Catholic girl.
He was very good to me when I was ill.
It was very good of you to come.
I had to take a week off work but my colleagues were very good about it.
You can stay up late if you're good.
Get dressed now, there's a good girl.
Can you speak into my good ear?
I don't feel too good today.
'How are you?' 'I'm good.' (= used as a general reply to a greeting)
Too much sun isn't good for you.
It's probably good for you to get some criticism now and then.
(informal) Shut your mouth, if you know what's good for you (= used as a threat).
It's no good complaining—they never listen.
This book is no good to me: I need the new edition.
Now is a good time to buy a house.
She would be good for the job.
Can we change our meeting? Monday isn't good (= convenient) for me.
'Dinner's ready.' 'Good—I'm starving.'
'I got the job.' 'Oh, good.'
Good, I think we've come to a decision.
Good old Jack!
'I've ordered some drinks.' 'Good man!'
Good heavens!
Good God!
a good many people
The kitchen is a good size.
We spent a good while (= quite a long time) looking for the house.
He devoted a good deal of (= a lot of) attention to the problem.
There's a good chance (= it is likely) that I won't be here next year.
We waited for a good hour.
It's a good three miles to the station.
We had a good laugh about it afterwards.
You'll feel better after a good sleep.
a good story/joke
(informal) That's a good one!
You're good for (= you will live) a few years yet.
The ticket is good for three months.
He's always good for a laugh.
Bobby should be good for a few drinks.
I won't go until I'm good and ready.
'I passed first time.' 'Good for you!'
the difference between good and evil
Is religion always a force for good?
The charity does a lot of good.
the difference between good and evil
Her goodness shone through.
a gathering of the great and the good
Cuts have been made for the good of the company.
I'm only telling you this for your own good.
What's the good of (= how does it help you) earning all that money if you don't have time to enjoy it?
What good is it redecorating if you're thinking of moving?
We are £500 to the good.
Those kids are always up to no good.
'How's it going?' 'Pretty good.'
(non-standard) Now, you listen to me good!
That's messed things up good and proper.
Good day to you.
a gesture of good faith
He acted in good faith.
'Want a ride?' 'No thanks. Walking is good for the soul.'
Good grief! What a mess!
Everyone admired her patience and unfailing good humour.
a good-humoured atmosphere
an actor famous for his rugged good looks
It's not something I would care to try myself but if she wants to, good luck to her.
Thousands of people paid good money to watch the band perform.
Don't waste good money on that!
He told the police he didn't know her, to protect her good name.
My election chances are not as important as the good name of the party.
'How much is all this going to cost?' 'Good question!'
'Goodbye and good riddance!' she said to him angrily as he left.
a man of honour and good sense
Keeping to a low-fat diet makes very good sense (= is a sensible thing to do).
an idle good-for-nothing
Where's that good-for-nothing son of yours?
a good-looking man/couple
She's strikingly good-looking.
a good-natured person/discussion
to smile good-naturedly
I was too much of a good-time girl to do any serious studying.
Goodbye! It was great to meet you.
She didn't even say goodbye to her mother.
We waved them goodbye.
We've already said our goodbyes.
Kiss me goodbye!
(figurative) Take out our service contract and say goodbye to costly repair bills.
Well, you can kiss goodbye to your chances of promotion.
a basket of goodies for the children
We're giving away lots of free goodies—T-shirts, hats and DVDs!
It's sometimes difficult to tell who are the goodies and who are the baddies.
'Is the salary good?' 'Goodish.'
It'll be a goodish while yet before I've finished.
a goodly number
the essential goodness of human nature
evidence of God's goodness
(formal) At least have the goodness (= good manners) to look at me when I'm talking to you.
These vegetables have had all the goodness boiled out of them.
Goodness, what a big balloon!
My goodness, you have been busy!
Goodness me, no!
You're not telling me he offered to lend you the money out of the goodness of his heart?
cheap/expensive goods
leather/cotton/paper goods
electrical/sports goods
perishable/durable goods
increased tax on goods and services
stolen goods
The plastic bag contained all his worldly goods (= everything he owned).
a goods train
a heavy goods vehicle
a spirit of goodwill in international relations
a goodwill gesture/a gesture of goodwill
a gooey mess
gooey cakes
Sorry, guys. I goofed.
This is just another of his goofball ideas.
a goofy grin
You can google someone you've recently met to see what information is available about them on the Internet.
I tried googling but couldn't find anything relevant.
(figurative) He bowled the prime minister a googly (= asked him a difficult question).
The politician hired a group of goondas to intimidate rival candidates.
roast goose
It gave me goose pimples just to think about it.
a gooseberry bush
to cut/untie the Gordian knot (= to solve a problem by taking action)
He was gored by a bull.
The movie is not just blood and gore (= scenes of violence); it has a thrilling story.
the Rhine Gorge
a gorgeous girl/man
a gorgeous view
gorgeous weather (= warm and with a lot of sun)
You look gorgeous!
It was absolutely gorgeous.
exotic birds with feathers of gorgeous colours
a gory accident
the gory task of the pathologist
a gory movie
(humorous) He insisted on telling us all the gory details about their divorce (= the unpleasant facts).
a gory figure
a gormless boy
Don't just stand there looking gormless—do something!
Gosh, is that the time?
the Gospel according to St John
St Mark's Gospel
preaching/spreading the gospel
He preached a gospel of military strength.
Is that gospel?
Don't take his word as gospel.
a gospel choir
a gown of gossamer silk
the gossamer wings of a dragonfly
Don't believe all the gossip you hear.
Tell me all the latest gossip!
The gossip was that he had lost a fortune on the stock exchange.
It was common gossip (= everyone said so) that they were having an affair.
She's a great one for idle gossip (= she enjoys spreading stories about other people that are probably not true).
I love a good gossip.
a gossipy letter/neighbour
I can't stand here gossiping all day.
She's been gossiping about you.
'Gotcha!' I yelled as I grabbed him by the arm (= used when you have caught sb, or have beaten them at sth).
'Don't let go.' 'Yeah, gotcha.' (= Yes, I understand.)
a Gothic church
He's gotta go.
Gotta cigarette?
The lion's claws had gouged a wound in the horse's side.
He had gouged her cheek with a screwdriver.
Price gouging is widespread.
The man's eyes had been gouged out.
Glaciers gouged out valleys from the hills.
gourmet food (= of high quality and often expensive)
the former governor of the colony
a provincial governor
the governor of Arizona
the Arizona governor
Governor Bev Perdue
a school governor
the board of governors of the college
a prison governor
the governor of the Bank of England
(informal) I can't decide. I'll have to ask the governor (= the man in charge, who employs sb).
to lead/form a government
the last Conservative government
the government of the day
Foreign governments have been consulted about this decision.
She has resigned from the Government.
The Government has/have been considering further tax cuts.
government policies/officials/ministers
a government department/agency/grant
government expenditure/intervention
coalition/communist/democratic/totalitarian, etc. government
Democratic government has now replaced military rule.
central/federal government
strong government
The Democrats are now in government in the US.
governmental agencies
governmental actions
The country is governed by elected representatives of the people.
He accused the opposition party of being unfit to govern.
Prices are governed by market demand.
All his decisions have been entirely governed by self-interest.
We need changes in the law governing school attendance.
The Conservatives were then the governing party.
The school's governing body (= the group of people who control the organization of the school) took responsibility for the decision.
These figures should come with a government health warning.
an evening/a wedding gown
a graduation gown
a surgeon's gown
Go and see your GP as soon as possible.
There are four GPs in our local practice.
He graduated with a GPA of 3.8.
The drivers all have GPS in the van.
She grabbed the child's hand and ran.
He grabbed hold of me and wouldn't let go.
Don't grab—there's plenty for everyone.
Jim grabbed a cake from the plate.
She grabbed at the branch, missed and fell.
Kate grabbed for the robber's gun.
This was my big chance and I grabbed it with both hands.
He'll grab at any excuse to avoid doing the dishes.
Let's grab a sandwich before we go.
I managed to grab a couple of hours' sleep on the plane.
Grab a seat, I won't keep you a moment.
By the time we arrived, someone had grabbed all the good seats.
I'll see if I can grab the waitress and get the bill.
Glasgow's drugs problem has grabbed the headlines tonight (= been published as an important story in the newspapers).
How does the idea of a trip to Rome grab you?
He made a grab for her bag.
a frame grab from CCTV
There are £25 000 worth of prizes up for grabs in our competition!
He offered a grab bag of reasons for his decision.
She moves with the natural grace of a ballerina.
He conducted himself with grace and dignity throughout the trial.
He was not particularly well versed in the social graces.
They've given me a month's grace to get the money.
It was only by the grace of God that they survived.
Let's say grace.
Good Morning, Your Grace.
Their Graces the Duke and Duchess of Kent.
He didn't even have the grace to look embarrassed.
He handed over the money with typical bad grace.
You must learn to accept defeat with good grace.
The table had once graced a duke's drawing room.
She is one of the finest players ever to have graced the game.
Will you be gracing us with your presence tonight?
The dancers were all tall and graceful.
He gave a graceful bow to the audience.
the graceful curves of the hills
His father had always taught him to be graceful in defeat.
The cathedral's white towers climb gracefully into the sky.
I think we should just give in gracefully.
a graceless, angry young man
the graceless architecture of the 1960s
She swam with a graceless stroke.
a gracious lady
a gracious smile
He has not yet learned how to be gracious in defeat.
gracious living
her gracious Majesty the Queen
a gracious act of God
Goodness gracious!
'I hope you didn't mind my phoning you.' 'Good gracious, no, of course not.'
She graciously accepted our invitation.
gradations of colour
gradation in size
the gradations on a thermometer
All the materials used were of the highest grade.
salary grades (= levels of pay)
She's still only on a secretarial grade.
(BrE) She got good grades in her exams.
(NAmE) She got good grades on her exams.
70% of pupils got Grade C or above.
Sam is in (the) second grade.
low/high grade fever
About 10% of trainees fail to make the grade.
The containers are graded according to size.
Eggs are graded from small to extra large.
Responses were graded from 1 (very satisfied) to 5 (not at all satisfied).
Ten beaches were graded as acceptable.
I spent all weekend grading papers.
The best students are graded A.
graded tests for language students
graded doses of a drug
The play is open to all seventh and eighth graders.
a steep gradient
a hill with a gradient of 1 in 4 (or 25%)
a gradual change in the climate
Recovery from the disease is very gradual.
The weather gradually improved.
Gradually, the children began to understand.
a graduate in history
a science graduate
a graduate of Yale/a Yale graduate
a graduate student/course
a high school graduate
a graduate student
Only three students graduated in Czech studies last year.
She graduated from Harvard this year.
He graduated from York with a degree in Psychology.
(NAmE) She graduated college last year.
Martha graduated from high school two years ago.
Martha graduated high school two years ago.
The college graduated 50 students last year.
She recently graduated from being a dancer to having a small role in a movie.
graduated lessons/tests
a graduated jar
It was my first job after graduation.
graduation day
My whole family came to my graduation.
The graduations are marked on the side of the flask.
A great crowd had gathered.
People were arriving in great numbers.
The great majority of (= most) people seem to agree with this view.
He must have fallen from a great height.
She lived to a great age.
There was a great big pile of books on the table.
He cut himself a great thick slice of cake.
a matter of great importance
The concert had been a great success.
Her death was a great shock to us all.
It gives me great pleasure to welcome you here today.
Take great care of it.
You've been a great help.
We are all to a great extent the products of our culture.
He has been described as the world's greatest violinist.
Sherlock Holmes, the great detective
Great art has the power to change lives.
He's a great bloke.
It's great to see you again.
What a great goal!
'I'll pick you up at seven.' 'That'll be great, thanks.'
(ironic) Oh great, they left without us.
(ironic) You've been a great help, I must say (= no help at all).
The wedding was a great occasion.
As the great day approached, she grew more and more nervous.
The great thing is to get it done quickly.
One great advantage of this metal is that it doesn't rust.
the great powers (= important and powerful countries)
We can make this country great again.
Alexander the Great
She seemed in great spirits (= very cheerful).
I feel great today.
Everyone's in great form.
She's great at chess.
This gadget's great for opening jars.
Try this cream—it's great for spots.
We are great friends.
I've never been a great reader (= I do not read much).
She's a great talker, isn't she?
my great-aunt (= my father's or mother's aunt)
her great-grandson (= the grandson of her son or daughter)
my great-great-grandfather (= the grandfather of my grandfather)
the great tit
Greater London
all creatures great and small
Their pet rabbit had gone to the great rabbit hutch in the sky.
He always takes great pains with his lectures.
He was one of boxing's all-time greats.
Well done. You did great.
The subway was covered in graffiti.
a skin graft
Their success was the result of years of hard graft.
newly grafted tissue
New skin had to be grafted on from his back.
Old values are being grafted onto a new social class.
America's grain exports
a few grains of rice
a grain of salt/sand/sugar
There isn't a grain of truth in those rumours.
to cut a piece of wood along/across the grain
wood of coarse/fine grain
fine-grained stone
The film is shot in grainy black and white.
grainy texture
sexual gratification
A feed will usually provide instant gratification to a crying baby.
telegram
hologram
a grammatical error
That sentence is not grammatical.
a grammatically correct sentence
the basic rules of grammar
English grammar
His grammar is appalling.
bad grammar
a French grammar
Do you want to go to your gran's?
Gran, can I have some more?
It's not a very grand house.
The wedding was a very grand occasion.
the Grand Canyon
We stayed at the Grand Hotel.
a grand design/plan/strategy
New Yorkers built their city on a grand scale.
I had a grand day out at the seaside.
Thanks. That'll be grand!
Fred did a grand job of painting the house.
the Grand Duchess Elena
He described himself grandly as a 'landscape architect'.
It'll cost you five grand!
My hospital room was like Grand Central Station with everybody coming and going.
The Grand Duke of Tuscany
a Grand Slam tournament/cup/title
Will France win the grand slam this year?(= in rugby )
Steve took us on a grand tour of the house and garden.
the grandeur and simplicity of Roman architecture
The hotel had an air of faded grandeur.
He has a sense of grandeur about him.
She is clearly suffering from delusions of grandeur (= thinks she is more important than she really is).
The grandiose scheme for a journey across the desert came to nothing.
a grandiose opera house
The children are staying with their grandparents.
The game was played to a packed grandstand.
From her house, we had a grandstand view (= very good view) of the celebrations.
Thrushcross Grange
a pair of granny glasses
My request was granted.
I was granted permission to visit the palace.
She was granted a divorce.
The bank finally granted me a £500 loan.
The bank finally granted a £500 loan to me.
She's a smart woman, I grant you, but she's no genius.
I grant you (that) it looks good, but it's not exactly practical.
I just took it for granted that he'd always be around.
Her husband was always there and she just took him for granted.
We take having an endless supply of clean water for granted.
student grants (= to pay for their education)
He has been awarded a research grant.
a grant-aided school
'You could have done more to help.' 'Granted.'
Granted, it's not the most pleasant of jobs but it has to be done.
Granted that it is a simple test to perform, it should be easy to get results quickly.
instant coffee granules
a bunch of grapes
black/white grapes (= grapes that are actually purple/green in colour)
He said he didn't want the job anyway, but that's just sour grapes.
I heard on the grapevine that you're leaving.
Plot a graph of height against age.
The graph shows how house prices have risen since the 1980s.
graphic design
a graphic designer
a graphic account/description of a battle
He kept telling us about his operation, in the most graphic detail.
The system uses an impressive graphical interface.
a graphical presentation of results
This data is shown graphically on the opposite page.
The murders are graphically described in the article.
Text and graphics are prepared separately and then combined.
expertise in computer graphics
Passers-by grappled with the man after the attack.
They managed to grapple him to the ground.
The new government has yet to grapple with the problem of air pollution.
I was grappling to find an answer to his question.
He grasped my hand and shook it warmly.
Kay grasped him by the wrist.
She was unable to grasp how to do it.
It took him some time to grasp that he was now a public figure.
I grasped the opportunity to work abroad.
She grasped at his coat as he rushed past her.
I grabbed him, but he slipped from my grasp.
She felt a firm grasp on her arm.
Don't let the situation escape from your grasp.
He has a good grasp of German grammar.
These complex formulae are beyond the grasp of the average pupil.
Success was within her grasp.
a grasping landlord
a blade of grass
The dry grass caught fire.
ornamental grasses
to cut/mow the grass
Don't walk on the grass.
Keep off the grass. (= on a sign)
He tends to deal with disputes by kicking them into the long grass.
the grass roots of the party
We need support at grass-roots level.
grated apple/carrot/cheese, etc.
Her voice really grates on me.
It grated with him when people implied he wasn't really British.
The rusty hinges grated as the gate swung back.
He grated his knife across the plate.
I am extremely grateful to all the teachers for their help.
We would be grateful for any information you can give us.
She seems to think I should be grateful to have a job at all.
He was grateful that she didn't tell his parents about the incident.
Grateful thanks are due to the following people for their help…
Kate gave him a grateful smile.
I would be grateful if you could send the completed form back as soon as possible.
He nodded gratefully.
All donations will be gratefully received.
a cheese/nutmeg grater
It gratified him to think that it was all his work.
I was gratified by their invitation.
He only gave his consent in order to gratify her wishes.
She was gratified to find that they had followed her advice.
I knew his help wouldn't be given gratis.
a gratis copy of a book
He smiled at them with gratitude.
I would like to express my gratitude to everyone for their hard work.
She was presented with the gift in gratitude for her long service.
a deep sense of gratitude
I owe you a great debt of gratitude (= feel extremely grateful).
gratuitous violence on television
We visited Grandma's grave.
There were flowers on the grave.
Is there life beyond the grave (= life after death)?
He followed her to the grave (= died soon after her).
She smoked herself into an early grave (= died young as a result of smoking).
My father would turn in his grave if he knew.
The police have expressed grave concern about the missing child's safety.
The consequences will be very grave if nothing is done.
We were in grave danger.
He looked very grave as he entered the room.
He's not really a very serious person.
Be serious for a moment; this is important.
He looked very grave as he entered the room.
The earnest young doctor answered all our questions.
Her expression grew solemn.
I made a solemn promise that I would return.
She is gravely ill.
Local people are gravely concerned.
He nodded gravely as I poured out my troubles.
a gravel path
a gravel pit (= a place where gravel is taken from the ground)
a dry gravelly soil
a book of extraordinary gravitas
Many young people gravitate to the cities in search of work.
a gravitational field
the gravitational pull of the moon
Newton's law of gravity
I don't think you realise the gravity of the situation.
Punishment varies according to the gravity of the offence.
They were asked to behave with the gravity that was appropriate in a court of law.
There were cows grazing beside the river.
The horses were grazing on the lush grass.
The field had been grazed by sheep.
The land is used by local people to graze their animals.
I have this really bad habit of grazing on junk food.
I fell and grazed my knee.
The bullet grazed his cheek.
Adam walked away from the crash with just cuts and grazes.
Grease marks can be removed with liquid detergent.
Her hands were covered with oil and grease.
the grease in his hair
plates covered with grease
to grease a cake tin/pan
greasy fingers/marks/overalls
greasy chips
long greasy hair
People's reaction to the film has varied greatly.
a greatly increased risk
Your help would be greatly appreciated.
a great crested grebe
Grecian architecture
His actions were motivated by greed.
Nothing would satisfy her greed for power.
I had another helping of ice cream out of pure greed.
You greedy pig! You've already had two helpings!
He stared at the diamonds with greedy eyes.
The shareholders are greedy for profit.
She ate noisily and greedily.
She tried to explain how the system works, but it's all Greek to me.
green beans
Wait for the light to turn green (= on traffic lights).
green fields/hills
After the rains, the land was green with new growth.
green tomatoes
green politics
Try to adopt a greener lifestyle.
the Green Party
The new trainees are still very green.
It was a rough crossing and most of the passengers looked distinctly green.
the greenness of the countryside
Supermarkets have started proclaiming the greenness of their products.
the green of the countryside in spring
The room was decorated in a combination of greens and blues.
She was dressed all in green.
Eat up your greens.
Children were playing on the village green.
the 18th green
Did the ball land on the green?
projects for greening the cities
an attempt to green industry bosses
the greening of British politics
New roads are cutting into the green belt.
The government has decided to give the green light to the plan.
Serve with a green salad.
green-collar jobs
A sixth season of the show has been green-lit.
The room was decorated with flowers and greenery.
a greenfield site
The roses have got greenfly.
a greengage tree
He greeted all the guests warmly as they arrived.
She greeted us with a smile.
Loud cheers greeted the news.
The changes were greeted with suspicion.
The team's win was greeted as a major triumph.
When she opened the door she was greeted by a scene of utter confusion.
She waved a friendly greeting.
They exchanged greetings and sat down to lunch.
He raised his hand in greeting.
Christmas/birthday, etc. greetings
My mother sends her greetings to you all.
Parents were invited to air their grievances (= express them) at the meeting.
He had been nursing a grievance against his boss for months.
Does the company have a formal grievance procedure (= a way of telling sb your complaints at work)?
He had been the victim of a grievous injustice.
grievously hurt/wounded
grey eyes/hair
wisps of grey smoke
a grey suit
He's gone very grey.
grey skies
I hate these grey days.
Life seems grey and pointless without him.
The company was full of faceless grey men who all looked the same.
the grey vote
grey power
the dull grey of the sky
dressed in grey
She's riding the grey.
His hair was greying at the sides.
a tall woman with greying hair
Exactly what can be called an offensive weapon is still a grey area.
the greybeards of the art world
greyish hair
I've printed out the pictures in greyscale.
New York's grid of streets
The grid reference is C8.
the national grid (= the electricity supply in a country)
The mountain cabin is entirely off the grid.
Congress is in gridlock.
She was overcome with grief when her husband died.
They were able to share their common joys and griefs.
It was a grief to them that they had no children.
He caused his parents a lot of grief.
They are still grieving for their dead child.
grieving relatives
She grieved the death of her husband.
It grieved him that he could do nothing to help her.
Their lack of interest grieved her.
It grieved her to leave.
Harry's Bar and Grill
Grill the sausages for ten minutes.
grilled bacon
grilled meat and shrimp
They grilled her about where she had been all night.
a radiator grille (= at the front of a car)
a security grille
The minister faced a tough grilling at today's press conference.
a grim face/look/smile
She looked grim.
with a look of grim determination on his face
grim-faced policemen
grim news
We face the grim prospect of still higher unemployment.
The outlook is pretty grim.
Things are looking grim for workers in the building industry.
The house looked grim and dreary in the rain.
the grim walls of the prison
I feel grim this morning.
Their performance was fairly grim, I'm afraid!
'It won't be easy,' he said grimly.
grimly determined
He grimaced at the bitter taste.
She grimaced as the needle went in.
to make/give a grimace of pain
'What's that?' she asked with a grimace.
a face covered with grime and sweat
grimy hands/windows
They grinned with delight when they heard our news.
He was grinning from ear to ear.
She grinned amiably at us.
He grinned a wide grin.
She gave a broad grin.
a wry/sheepish grin
'No,' he said with a grin.
Take that grin off your face!
to grind coffee/corn
The flour is ground using traditional methods.
a special stone for grinding knives
He ground his cigarette into the ashtray.
The dirt on her hands was ground in.
Parts of the machine were grinding together noisily.
She grinds her teeth when she is asleep.
He ground the gears on the car.
to grind a pepper mill
Don't let them grind you down.
Years of oppression had ground the people down.
The argument ground on for almost two years.
She grinds out romantic novels at the rate of five a year.
the daily grind of family life
It's a long grind to the top of that particular profession.
a coffee grinder
grinding poverty
Keep a tight grip on the rope.
to loosen/release/relax your grip
She tried to get a grip on the icy rock.
The climber slipped and lost her grip.
She struggled from his grip.
Try adjusting your grip on the racket.
The home team took a firm grip on the game.
We need to tighten the grip we have on the market.
I couldn't get a grip on what was going on.
You need to keep a good grip on reality in this job.
These tyres give the bus better grip in slippery conditions.
the grip on a golf club
a country in the grip of recession
Sometimes I feel I'm losing my grip.
'Please don't go,' he said, gripping her arm.
She gripped on to the railing with both hands.
The book grips you from start to finish.
I was totally gripped by the story.
I was gripped by a feeling of panic.
Terrorism has gripped the country for the past two years.
tyres that grip the road
My only gripe about the hotel was the food.
He's always griping about the people at work.
a grisly crime
a lump of gristle
I had a piece of grit in my eye.
They were spreading grit and salt on the icy roads.
She gritted her teeth against the pain.
'Stop it!' he said through gritted teeth.
It started to rain harder, but we gritted our teeth and carried on.
a layer of gritty dust
gritty determination
a gritty performance from the British player
a gritty description of urban violence
gritty realism
He lay on the floor groaning.
to groan with pain/pleasure
We all groaned at his terrible jokes.
They were all moaning and groaning (= complaining) about the amount of work they had.
'It's a complete mess!' she groaned.
The trees creaked and groaned in the wind.
tables groaning with food
She let out a groan of dismay.
He fell to the floor with a groan.
The house was filled with the cello's dismal squeaks and groans.
the grocery bill
She kicked her attacker in the groin.
He's been off all season with a groin injury.
Children grok this show immediately but their parents take longer to get it.
to groom a horse/dog/cat
The horses are all well fed and groomed.
a female ape grooming her mate
Our junior employees are being groomed for more senior roles.
The eldest son is being groomed to take over when his father dies.
She is always perfectly groomed.
You should always pay attention to personal grooming.
a jazz groove
He groped around in the dark for his other sock.
(figurative) 'It's so…, so…' I was groping for the right word to describe it.
He groped his way up the staircase in the dark.
She groped through the darkness towards the doors.
a group of girls/trees/houses
A group of us is/are going to the theatre this evening.
Students stood around in groups waiting for their results.
The residents formed a community action group.
English is a member of the Germanic group of languages.
The proportion of single-parent families varies between different income groups.
a minority group
ethnic groups
a group activity (= done by a number of people working together)
She asked her students to get into groups of four.
to work in groups
a newspaper group
the Burton group
the group sales director
She sings in a rock group.
The children grouped themselves around their teacher.
We all grouped around the tree for a photograph.
The colleges grouped together to offer a wider range of courses.
The books are grouped together by subject.
Contestants were grouped according to age and ability.
gross weight (= including the container or wrapping)
gross income/wage (= before taxes, etc. are taken away)
Investments showed a gross profit of 26%.
gross indecency/negligence/misconduct
a gross violation of human rights
'He ate it with mustard.' 'Oh, gross!'
gross behaviour
She's not just fat, she's positively gross!
She earns £25 000 a year gross.
It is one of the biggest grossing movies of all time.
His bad breath really grossed me out.
two gross of apples
to sell sth by the gross
They eat flies? What a gross-out!
gross-out movie scenes
grossly overweight/unfair/inadequate
Press reports have been grossly exaggerated.
a grotesque distortion of the truth
It's grotesque to expect a person of her experience to work for so little money.
a grotesque figure
tribal dancers wearing grotesque masks
a grotty little hotel
I'm feeling pretty grotty (= ill).
He lost his balance and fell to the ground.
2 metres above/below ground
Most of the monkeys' food is found at ground level.
ground forces (= soldiers that fight on land, not in the air or at sea)
Houses and a luxury tourist hotel were burned to the ground (= completely destroyed, so that there is nothing left).
fertile ground for planting crops
The kids were playing on waste ground behind the school.
a football/recreation/sports, etc. ground
ancient burial grounds
agricultural land
building lots
a parking lot
The kids were playing on waste ground near the school.
the site of an ancient burial ground
The city has plenty of open space.
the wide open spaces of the Canadian prairies
She bought a small plot of land to build a house.
a vegetable plot
feeding grounds for birds
the hospital grounds
He managed to cover a lot of ground in a short talk.
We had to go over the same ground (= talk about the same things again) in class the next day.
You're on dangerous ground (= talking about ideas that are likely to offend sb or make people angry) if you criticize his family.
I thought I was on safe ground (= talking about a suitable subject) discussing music with her.
He was back on familiar ground, dealing with the customers.
They are fighting the Conservatives on their own ground.
What were his grounds for wanting a divorce?
The case was dismissed on the grounds that there was not enough evidence.
He retired from the job on health grounds.
Employers cannot discriminate on grounds of age.
coffee grounds
pink roses on a white ground
Don't let him persuade you—stand your ground.
It is not easy to hold your ground in front of someone with a gun.
On the ground, there are hopes that the fighting will soon stop.
There's a lot of support for the policy on the ground.
Customers are thin on the ground at this time of year.
We decided to meet on neutral ground.
The committee will prepare the ground for next month's meeting.
This job suits me down to the ground.
The fishing boat had been grounded on rocks off the coast of Cornwall.
The balloon was grounded by strong winds.
All planes out of Heathrow have been grounded by the strikes.
You're grounded for a week!
ground coffee
(US) ground pork
a ground-floor window
I live on the ground floor.
The new code of conduct lays down the ground rules for management-union relations.
a groundbreaking piece of research
Away from Hollywood, he relies on his family and friends to keep him grounded.
The Government lost the vote then and it can expect a Groundhog Day next time.
a good grounding in grammar
groundless allegations
Our fears proved groundless.
a groundswell of support
There was a groundswell of opinion that he should resign.
Officials are laying the groundwork for a summit conference of world leaders.
Group Captain (Jonathan) Sutton
These small nations constitute an important grouping within the EU.
grouse shooting
grouse moors
roast grouse
a grove of birch trees
an olive grove
Elm Grove
a grovelling letter of apology
The company profits grew by 5% last year.
Fears are growing for the safety of a teenager who disappeared a week ago.
The family has grown in size recently.
She is growing in confidence all the time.
The company is growing bigger all the time.
You've grown since the last time I saw you!
Nick's grown almost an inch in the last month.
to grow bigger/taller
The region is too dry for plants to grow.
Tomatoes grow best in direct sunlight.
I didn't know they grew rice in France.
I've decided to let my hair grow.
I've decided to grow my hair.
I didn't recognize him—he's grown a beard.
to grow old/bored/calm
As time went on he grew more and more impatient.
The skies grew dark and it began to rain.
I'm sure you'll grow to like her in time.
She continues to grow as an artist.
We are trying to grow the business.
When she left school she grew away from her mother.
The dress is too long for her now but she'll grow into it.
She's still growing into her new role as a mother.
I had a perm a year ago and it still hasn't grown out.
I've decided to grow my layers out.
He's already grown out of his school uniform.
Most children suck their thumbs but they grow out of it.
The idea for the book grew out of a visit to India.
She grew up in Boston (= lived there as a child).
Their children have all grown up and left home now.
He grew up to become a famous pianist.
Why don't you grow up?
It's time you grew up.
A closeness grew up between the two girls.
a tobacco grower
All our vegetables are supplied by local growers.
a fast/slow grower
A growing number of people are returning to full-time education.
one of the country's fastest growing industries
There is growing concern over the safety of the missing teenager.
'Who are you?' he growled at the stranger.
She growled a sarcastic reply.
It's pathetic that grown men have to resort to violence like this.
What do you want to be when you're grown-up?
She has a grown-up son.
The child was clearly puzzled at being addressed in such a grown-up way.
If you're good you can eat with the grown-ups.
Lack of water will stunt the plant's growth.
Remove dead leaves to encourage new growth.
a concern with personal (= mental and emotional) growth and development
growth hormones (= designed to make sb/sth grow faster)
population growth
the rapid growth in violent crime
a disappointing year of little growth in Britain and America
policies aimed at sustaining economic growth
an annual growth rate of 10%
a growth area/industry
a malignant/cancerous growth
The forest's dense growth provides nesting places for a wide variety of birds.
several days' growth of beard
Grub's up!(= the meal is ready)
They serve good pub grub there.
birds grubbing for worms
grubby hands/clothes
a grubby scandal
I bear him no grudge.
He has a grudge against the world.
I don't hold any grudges now.
He's a man with a grudge.
England beat New Zealand in a grudge match (= a match where there is strong dislike between the teams).
I grudge having to pay so much tax.
He grudges the time he spends travelling to work.
You surely don't grudge her her success?
He could not help feeling a grudging admiration for the old lady.
She grudgingly admitted that I was right.
a gruelling journey/schedule
I've had a gruelling day.
a gruesome murder
gruesome pictures of dead bodies
(humorous) We spent a week in a gruesome apartment in Miami.
Beneath his gruff exterior, he's really very kind-hearted.
She's always grumbling to me about how badly she's treated at work.
'I'll just have to do it myself,' he grumbled.
Thunder grumbled in the distance.
My main grumble is about the lack of privacy.
a distant grumble of thunder
We didn't hear any grumbling about the food.
He pulled harder on the rope, grunting with the effort.
When I told her what had happened she just grunted and turned back to her book.
He grunted something about being late and rushed out.
'Thanks,' he grunted.
to give a grunt of effort/pain
She has assistants to do the grunt work like research and proofreading.
Gt Britain
Gt Yarmouth
The main reason for his company's success is that he has good guanxi with the authorities.
The United Nations will act as guarantor of the peace settlement.
a security guard
border guards
The prisoner slipped past the guards on the gate and escaped.
A guard was posted outside the building.
the captain of the guard
the changing of the guard (= when one group replaces another)
The guard is/are being inspected today.
Fellow airmen provided a guard of honour at his wedding.
The President always travels with an armed guard.
a sentry on guard (= at his or her post, on duty)
to do guard duty
The escaped prisoner was brought back under armed guard.
The terrorist was kept under police guard.
One of the men kept guard, while the other broke into the house.
Ensure the guard is in place before operating the machine.
to drop/keep up your guard
(figurative) In spite of the awkward questions the minister never let his guard fall for a moment.
Four soldiers stood guard over the coffin.
The lawyer's apparently innocent question was designed to catch the witness off (his) guard.
The dog was guarding its owner's luggage.
political leaders guarded by the police
You can't get in; the whole place is guarded.
(figurative) a closely guarded secret
The prisoners were guarded by soldiers.
to guard against accidents/disease
a guarded reply
You should be more guarded in what you say to reporters.
They gave the news a guarded welcome (= did not show great enthusiasm about it).
(figurative) A delightful guide was my guardian angel for the first week of the tour.
All the gubbins that came with the computer is still in the box.
a gubernatorial candidate
gubernatorial duties
urban guerrillas (= those who fight in towns)
guerrilla war/warfare (= fought by guerrillas on one or both sides)
a guerrilla movement
Guerrilla actors took to the streets in army fatigues to protest against the war.
guerrilla marketing (= marketing that uses unusual methods in order to achieve the greatest effect for the smallest amount of money)
guerrilla gardening (= growing plants on land that you do not own to make it more attractive)
I don't really know. I'm just guessing.
We can only guess at her reasons for leaving.
He guessed right/wrong.
I'd guess that she's about 30.
Can you guess where I've been?
Can you guess his age?
I think it's likely that these people know each other.
I imagine she's his wife.
They might/may/could be related.(BrE or formal, NAmE)
I would think/imagine/guess they've been waiting for some time.(BrE)
I guess that the car has broken down.(NAmE)
I think this has probably happened before.
It looks to me as though the woman is very angry.
Perhaps/Probably/Possibly/It may be that/Maybe there has been an accident.(BrE or formal, NAmE)
She guessed the answer straight away.
You'll never guess what she told me.
You would never guess (that) she had problems. She's always so cheerful.
I guess (that) you'll be looking for a new job now.
'He didn't see me, I guess.'
'Are you ready to go?' 'Yeah, I guess so.'
'They aren't coming, then?' ' I guess not.'
Guess what! He's asked me out!
Guess who I've just seen!
It's the kind of book that keeps you guessing right to the end.
(BrE) to have/make a guess (at sth)
(NAmE) to take a guess
Go on! Have a guess!
The article is based on guesses about what might happen in the future.
They might be here by 3—but that's just a rough guess (= not exact).
My guess is that we won't hear from him again.
At a guess, there were forty people at the party.
If I might hazard a guess, I'd say she was about thirty.
Who do you think I saw yesterday? I'll give you three guesses.
'Who's going to win?' 'Your guess is as good as mine.'
Unless I miss my guess, your computer needs a new hard drive.
It was pure guesswork on our part.
We have guests staying this weekend.
more than 100 wedding guests
I went to the theatre club as Helen's guest.
He was the guest of honour (= the most important person invited to an event).
Liz was not on the guest list.
We have accommodation for 500 guests.
a paying guest (= a person who is living in a private house, but paying as if they were in a hotel)
Guests should vacate their rooms by 10.30 a.m.
a guest artist/star/singer
Our special guest tonight is…
He made a guest appearance on the show.
The scientists are here as guests of our government.
a guest speaker
She guested on several chat shows while visiting Britain.
They all guffawed at his jokes.
She let out a loud guffaw.
guidance for teachers on how to use video in the classroom
Activities all take place under the guidance of an experienced tutor.
(NAmE) a guidance counselor (= sb who advises students)
a missile guidance system
a guided tour/walk
The government has drawn up guidelines on the treatment of the mentally ill.
The figures are a useful guideline when buying a house.
She was inexperienced and needed a guiding hand.
a guiding force
the Screen Actors' Guild
to guillotine a bill
I felt guilty about not visiting my parents more often.
John had a guilty look on his face.
I had a guilty conscience and could not sleep.
The jury found the defendant not guilty of the offence.
He pleaded guilty to murder.
the guilty party (= the person responsible for sth bad happening)
We've all been guilty of selfishness at some time in our lives.
roast guinea fowl
Students in fifty schools are to act as guinea pigs for these new teaching methods.
His speech presented racist ideas under the guise of nationalism.
The story appears in different guises in different cultures.
an acoustic/an electric/a classical, etc. guitar
a guitar player
Do you play the guitar?
She plays guitar in a band.
As he sang, he strummed his guitar.
the Gulf of Mexico
the Gulf States (= the countries with coasts on the Gulf)
The gulf between rich and poor is enormous.
He gulped down the rest of his tea and went out.
She gulped nervously before trying to answer.
She came up gulping for air.
He leant against the car, gulping in the cold air.
She gulped back her tears and forced a smile.
He took a gulp of coffee.
'Can you start on Monday?' Amy gave a gulp. 'Of course,' she said.
He drank the glass of whisky in one gulp.
gum disease
fruit gums
A large address label was gummed to the package.
to fire a gun at sb
a toy gun
anti-aircraft guns
Look out, he's got a gun!
Should police officers carry guns?
He pointed/aimed the gun at her head.
The police officers drew their guns (= took them out so they were ready to use).
She pulled a gun on me (= took out a gun and aimed it at me).
a gun battle between rival gangs
a staple gun
a hired gun
I'm really under the gun today.
a line of motorcycles with their engines gunning
He gunned the cab through the red light.
an exchange of gunfire with the police
I could hear gunfire.
gunshot wounds
I heard the sound of gunshots out in the street.
He was out of/within gunshot.
Water gurgled through the pipes.
a gurgling stream
a management/health/fashion, etc. guru
blood gushing from a wound
Water gushed out of the pipe.
The tanker was gushing oil.
(figurative) She absolutely gushed enthusiasm.
'You are clever,' she gushed.
a gush of blood
a gush of emotion
Even the stars get tired of gussying up for the awards.
A gust of wind blew his hat off.
The wind was blowing in gusts.
a gust of laughter
winds gusting up to 60 mph
a gusty morning
gusty winds
They sang with gusto.
I'll only cook fish if the guts have been removed.
Have you seen the gut on him!
a beer gut (= caused by drinking beer)
He doesn't have the guts to walk away from a well-paid job.
I had a feeling in my guts that something was wrong.
the guts of the problem
I slogged my guts out for the exam.
a factory gutted by fire
The house was completely gutted.
a gut feeling/reaction
You have to work on gut instinct.
a gutsy fighter/win
a gutsy red wine
a gutsy song
guttural consonants
a low guttural growl
Disappointed? I was gutted!
a blocked/leaking gutter
She rose from the gutter to become a great star.
the language of the gutter (= using swear words)
a length of guttering
Do you want me to ask the guv'nor about it?
a big/nice/tough guy
a Dutch guy
At the end of the film the bad guy gets shot.
Come on, you guys, let's get going!
I was tired of helping other people. From now on it was no more Mr Nice Guy (= I would stop being pleasant and kind).
The kids seem to be guzzling soft drinks all day.
(figurative) My car guzzles fuel.
to play basketball in the gym
The school has recently built a new gym.
I don't enjoy gym.
gym shoes
I just joined a gym.
I work out at the gym most days.
a gymnastics competition
(figurative) mental/verbal gymnastics (= quick or clever thinking or use of words)
a gynaecological examination
That meal was a real gyp.
'Hat' begins with (an) H/'H'.
Ha! It serves you right!
Ha! I knew he was hiding something.
Ha! Ha! Very funny! Now give me back my shoes.
You need to change your eating habits.
good/bad habits
He has the irritating habit of biting his nails.
It's all right to borrow money occasionally, but don't let it become a habit.
I'd prefer you not to make a habit of it.
I'm not in the habit of letting strangers into my apartment.
I've got into the habit of turning on the TV as soon as I get home.
I'm trying to break the habit of staying up too late.
I only do it out of habit.
I'm a creature of habit (= I have a fixed and regular way of doing things).
He began to finance his habit through burglary.
She's tried to give up smoking but just can't kick the habit.
a 50-a-day habit
The house should be habitable by the new year.
The panda's natural habitat is the bamboo forest.
the destruction of wildlife habitat
They looked around for any signs of habitation.
The houses were unfit for human habitation (= not clean or safe enough for people to live in).
The road serves the scattered habitations along the coast.
They waited for his habitual response.
(formal) a person's place of habitual residence
habitual complaining
the habitual use of heroin
a habitual criminal/drinker/liar, etc.
the dark glasses he habitually wore
a(n) habitué of upmarket clubs
I hacked the dead branches off.
They were hacked to death as they tried to escape.
We had to hack our way through the jungle.
We hacked away at the bushes.
He hacked the ball away.
He hacked into the bank's computer.
They had hacked secret data.
Lots of people leave this job because they can't hack it.
a party hack
I'm really hacked off.
The government tax website is vulnerable to hacking, putting taxpayers' information at risk.
Ben felt his hackles rise as the speaker continued.
a hackneyed phrase/subject
a hacky joke
It's just a hacky workaround.
smoked haddock
haemophilia
a massive brain/cerebral haemorrhage
He was checked for any signs of haemorrhage.
Poor working conditions have led to a steady haemorrhage of qualified teachers from our schools.
a haemorrhagic fever
I left him in the market haggling over the price of a shirt.
The conference was hailed as a great success.
Teenager Matt Brown is being hailed a hero for saving a young child from drowning.
to hail a taxi/cab
A voice hailed us from the other side of the street.
It's hailing!
His father hailed from Italy.
We drove through hail and snow.
a hail of arrows/bullets
a hail of abuse
fair/dark hair
straight/curly/wavy hair
to comb/brush your hair
(informal) I'll be down in a minute. I'm doing (= brushing, arranging, etc.) my hair.
I'm having my hair cut this afternoon.
body/facial/pubic hair
There's a hair in my soup.
The rug was covered with cat hairs.
dark-haired
long-haired
I haven't seen hide nor hair of her for a month.
She's keeping very calm—anyone else would be tearing their hair out.
a hair-raising adventure/story
We won by a hair's breadth.
They were within a hair's breadth of being killed.
You need a haircut.
I see you've had a haircut.
What do you think of my new haircut?
a trendy haircut
The Prime Minister says he'd like to see banks take a bigger haircut from bad loans.
a hairy chest/monster
plants with hairy stems
Driving on icy roads can be pretty hairy.
a hairy experience
a receding hairline
a hairline crack/fracture
halal meat
a halal butcher (= one who sells halal meat)
the halcyon days of her youth
two and a half kilos (= 2½)
One and a half hours are allowed for the exam.
An hour and a half is allowed for the exam.
The second half of the book is more exciting.
I've divided the money in half.
We'll need to reduce the weight by half.
Cut the apple into quarters.
Two halves make a whole.
I've been waiting here for a whole hour.
Half (of) the work is already finished.
They spent half the time looking for a parking space.
Her house is half a mile down the road.
I waited for half an hour.
This meal is only half cooked.
No goals were scored in the first half.
Two halves of bitter, please.
'It sounds very difficult.' ' You don't know the half of it.'
I've half a mind to come with you tomorrow.
I've a good mind to write and tell your parents about it.
half an hour
Half (of) the fruit was bad.
Half of the money was mine.
He has a half share in the company.
Out of 36 candidates, half passed.
Half the fun of gardening is never knowing exactly what's going to come up.
Half the time you don't even listen to what I say.
Hang on. I'll be ready in half a minute.
The glass was half full.
The chicken was only half cooked.
half-closed eyes
I'm half inclined to agree.
Spending on health is half as much again as it was in 2009.
It wasn't half good (= it was very good).
'Was she annoyed?' 'Not half!' (= she was extremely annoyed)
He is not half such a fool as they think.
It really isn't half bad, is it?
Tuesday is her half day.
He should arrive within the next half hour.
a half-hour drive
There are no half measures with this company.
I was in that half-and-half land where you are not completely asleep nor completely awake.
a half-baked idea
He made a half-hearted attempt to justify himself.
a half-hourly bus service
The buses run half-hourly.
in the grey half-light of dawn
a half-price ticket
Children aged under four go half-price.
Many items are at half price.
the half-term break/holiday
What are you doing at half-term?
The score at half-time was two all.
the half-time score
The newspaper reports are a mixture of gossip, lies and half-truths.
a half-yearly meeting
the half-yearly sales figures
Interest will be paid half-yearly in June and December.
It's about halfway between London and Bristol.
He left halfway through the ceremony.
I'm afraid we're not even halfway there yet.
This only goes halfway to explaining what really happened.
Any halfway decent map will give you that information.
the halfway point/stage
She ran into the hall and up the stairs.
I headed for Scott's office down the hall.
a concert/banqueting/sports/exhibition, etc. hall
There are three dining halls on campus.
The Royal Albert Hall
(BrE) A jumble sale will be held in the village hall on Saturday.
She's living in hall(s).
Haddon Hall
the Country Music Hall of Fame
Police said the explosion bore all the hallmarks of a terrorist attack.
one of the theatre's most hallowed traditions
to be buried in hallowed ground
to have hallucinations
High temperatures can cause hallucination.
Was the figure real or just a hallucination?
a hallucinatory experience
hallucinatory drugs
hallucinogenic drugs/effects
She played the part of an angel, complete with wings and a halo.
(figurative) a halo of white frizzy hair
She walked towards him and then halted.
'Halt!' the Major ordered (= used as a command to soldiers).
The police were halting traffic on the parade route.
The trial was halted after the first week.
Work came to a halt when the machine broke down.
The thought brought her to an abrupt halt.
The car skidded to a halt.
Strikes have led to a halt in production.
They decided it was time to call a halt to the project (= stop it officially).
She was dressed in a halter top and shorts.
a halting conversation
a toddler's first few halting steps
'Well…' she began haltingly.
The shares have halved in value.
The company is halving its prices.
The hams were cooked whole.
a slice of ham
a ham sandwich
a radio ham
a ham actor
his ham-fisted efforts to assist her
(figurative) The decision is a hammer blow for the steel industry.
to come/go under the hammer (= to be sold at auction )
I could hear somebody hammering next door.
She hammered the nail into the wall.
He was hammering the sheet of copper flat.
Someone was hammering at the door.
Hail was hammering down onto the roof.
(figurative) I was so scared my heart was hammering (= beating very fast) in my chest.
He hammered the ball into the net.
Our team was hammered 5–1.
to hammer out a compromise
the sound of hammering from the next room
Our team took a real hammering in the first half.
a picnic hamper
a Christmas hamper
a hamstring injury
She's pulled a hamstring.
Ian placed a hand on her shoulder.
Put your hand up if you know the answer.
Keep both hands on the steering wheel at all times.
She was on (her) hands and knees (= crawling on the floor) looking for an earring.
Couples strolled past holding hands.
Give me your hand (= hold my hand) while we cross the road.
The crowd threw up their hands (= lifted them into the air) in dismay.
He killed the snake with his bare hands (= using only his hands).
a hand towel (= a small towel for drying your hands on)
a hand drill (= one that is used by turning a handle rather than powered by electricity)
I felt the bag to see what was in it.
She fingered the silk delicately.
Handle the fruit with care.
She rubbed her eyes wearily.
The cat loves being stroked.
He patted my arm and told me not to worry.
Someone was tapping lightly at the door.
I took his hand and squeezed it.
I grabbed his arm to stop myself from falling.
She snatched the letter out of my hand.
Her hands were clasped behind her head.
The child was clutching a doll in her hand.
Grasp the rope with both hands and pull.
He gripped his bag tightly and wouldn't let go.
a one-handed catch
left-handed scissors (= intended to be held in your left hand)
Let me give you a hand with those bags (= help you to carry them).
Do you need a hand with those invoices?
The neighbours are always willing to lend a hand.
Early reports suggest the hand of rebel forces in the bombings.
Several of his colleagues had a hand in his downfall.
This appointment was an attempt to strengthen her hand in policy discussions.
All hands on deck!
hand-painted pottery
hand-knitted
This item should be hand washed.
to be dealt a good/bad hand
I'll have to leave after this hand.
He asked the general for his daughter's hand in marriage.
Poverty and poor health often go hand in hand.
They won hands down.
It is hands down the best movie this year.
Hands up all those who want to go swimming.
She certainly has her hands full with four kids in the house.
I really wish I could help but my hands are tied.
Do you want me to come along and hold your hand?
I have to hold my hands up and admit that some of the problems have been all my own fault.
Can I leave these queries in your capable hands?
The matter is now in the hands of my lawyer.
At that time, the castle was in enemy hands.
She retired last year but still teaches the odd class to keep her hand in.
Wait till I get my hands on him!
I know their address is here somewhere, but I can't lay my hands on it right now.
She hasn't done a hand's turn all week.
The emergency services were on hand with medical advice.
Let me take care of the invitations—you've enough on your hands with the caterers.
Unemployment is getting out of hand.
All our suggestions were dismissed out of hand.
I'm afraid the matter is now out of my hands.
If we get the police involved, we'll be playing right into the protesters' hands.
I've heard he doesn't like putting his hand in his pocket.
I'm afraid I don't have the latest figures to hand.
Jim can turn his hand to most jobs around the house.
the heavy hand of management
Education has been reluctant to join hands with business.
You take your life in your hands just crossing the road here.
I've left the kids in safe hands—with my parents.
Their problem was in the safe hands of the experts.
When her son was arrested again she washed her hands of him.
She handed the letter to me.
She handed me the letter.
Nobody's going to hand you success on a plate.
You've got to hand it to her—she's a great cook.
These skills used to be handed down from father to son.
The judge has handed down his verdict.
You must all hand in your projects by the end of next week.
I handed the watch in to the police.
to hand in your notice/resignation (= formally tell your employer that you want to stop working for them)
Could you hand these books out, please?
He's always handing out advice to people.
She resigned and handed over to one of her younger colleagues.
He handed over his responsibility for the firm last year.
I'll hand you over to my boss.
He handed over a cheque for $200 000.
They handed the weapons over to the police.
She hated having to wear her sister's hand-me-downs.
a penalty for handball
to put the handbrake on
to take the handbrake off
Is the handbrake on?
a handcrafted chair
a pair of handcuffs
She was led away in handcuffs.
A new man was appointed to handle the crisis.
She's very good at handling her patients.
The sale was handled by Adams Commercial.
We can handle up to 500 calls an hour at our new offices.
We all have to learn to handle stress.
This matter has been handled very badly.
(informal) 'Any problems?' 'Nothing I can't handle.'
(informal) I've got to go. I can't handle it any more (= deal with a difficult situation).
(informal) You have to know how to handle yourself in this business (= know the right way to behave).
Our cat hates being handled.
The label on the box said: 'Fragile. Handle with care.'
I wasn't sure if I could handle such a powerful car.
She's a difficult horse to handle.
The car handles well in any weather.
They were arrested for handling stolen goods.
She turned the handle and opened the door.
the handle of a knife
a broom handle
a long-handled spoon
I added my handle at the top of my blog page so that readers could view my tweets as well as my blog posts.
a handful of rice
Only a handful of people came.
Her children can be a real handful.
I prefer to consult a dictionary on a handheld.
Despite her handicap, Jane is able to hold down a full-time job.
mental/physical/visual handicap
Not speaking the language proved to be a bigger handicap than I'd imagined.
British exports have been handicapped by the strong pound.
a visually handicapped child
The accident left him physically handicapped.
a school for the physically handicapped
to teach handicrafts
Her hobbies are music, reading and handicraft.
traditional handicrafts bought by tourists
a handy little tool
handy hints/tips for removing stains
Always keep a first-aid kit handy.
Have you got a pen handy?
(BrE) Our house is very handy for the station.
to be handy around the house
We're handily placed for the train station.
He handily defeated his challengers.
We admired her exquisite handiwork.
This looks like the handiwork of an arsonist.
to hold onto the handlebars
airport baggage handlers
food handlers
the President's campaign handlers
I was impressed by his handling of the affair.
This horse needs firm handling.
data handling on computer
toys that can stand up to rough handling
a small handling charge
a car designed for easy handling
Mathematics was once dubbed the handmaiden of the sciences.
the smooth handover of power from a military to a civilian government
the handover of the hostages
These kits were hands-down favourites with our testers.
a hands-off approach to staff management
hands-on computer training
to gain hands-on experience of industry
a hands-on style of management
mobile handsets
handset manufacturers
a handsome face
He's the most handsome man I've ever met.
He was aptly described as ' tall, dark, and handsome '.
a tall, handsome woman
a handsome horse/house/city
The two of them made a handsome couple.
a handsome profit
He was elected by a handsome majority (= a lot of people voted for him).
She paid him a handsome compliment.
a handsomely dressed man
a handsomely produced book
to be paid/rewarded handsomely
I can't read his handwriting.
a handwritten note
Hang your coat on the hook.
Shall I hang your coat up?
(BrE) Have you hung out the washing?
(NAmE) Have you hung the wash?
There were several expensive suits hanging in the wardrobe.
Her hair hung down to her waist.
He had lost weight and the suit hung loosely on him.
The dog's tongue was hanging out.
Children hung (= were leaning) over the gate.
A cigarette hung from her lips.
She hung her head in shame.
He was the last man to be hanged for murder in this country.
She had committed suicide by hanging herself from a beam.
At that time you could hang for stealing.
We hung her portrait above the fireplace.
Several of his paintings hang in the Tate Gallery.
The rooms were hung with tapestries.
Smoke hung in the air above the city.
Oh, let's get two and hang the expense!
Smoke lay heavy on the far side of the water.
Despair hangs heavy in the stifling air.
The crime lay heavy on her conscience.
It's OK—hang loose and stay cool.
kids hanging about in the streets
I can't hang about—the boss wants to see me.
Hang about! There's something not quite right here.
You hang around here in case he comes, and I'll go on ahead.
I was sure she knew the answer but for some reason she hung back.
Hang on tight—we're off!
Hang on—I'm not quite ready.
Now hang on a minute—you can't really believe what you just said!
I haven't heard if I've got the job yet—they've kept me hanging on for days.
Hang on—I'll just see if he's here.
The team hung on for victory.
A lot hangs on this decision.
Hang on to that rope and don't let go.
Let's hang on to those old photographs—they may be valuable.
The local kids hang out at the mall.
The possibility of a court case is still hanging over her.
Their accounts of what happened don't hang together.
After I hung up I remembered what I'd wanted to say.
Ruth has hung up her dancing shoes.
Don't hang up on me—we must talk!
to go hang-gliding
He's got a real hang-up about his height.
to sentence sb to death by hanging
public hangings
wall hangings
She woke up with a terrible hangover.
the insecure feeling that was a hangover from her childhood
hangover laws from the previous administration
He had hankered after fame all his life.
She hankered to go back to Australia.
a hankering for a wealthy lifestyle
There have been strange happenings here lately.
a happening place
The books had been piled on the shelves in a haphazard fashion.
The government's approach to the problem was haphazard.
the hapless victims of exploitation
a happy smile/face
You don't look very happy today.
We are happy to announce the engagement of our daughter.
I'm very happy for you.
I'm happy (that) you could come.
The story has a happy ending.
Those were the happiest days of my life.
Are you happy with that arrangement?
I'm not happy with his work this term.
She was happy enough with her performance.
If there's anything you're not happy about, come and ask.
I'm not too happy about her living alone.
I said I'd go just to keep him happy.
I'm happy to leave it till tomorrow.
He will be more than happy to come with us.
By a happy coincidence, we arrived at exactly the same time.
He is in the happy position of never having to worry about money.
That wasn't the happiest choice of words.
to find true happiness
Her eyes shone with happiness.
children playing happily on the beach
to be happily married
I think we can manage quite happily on our own.
And they all lived happily ever after (= used as the end of a fairy tale ).
Happily, the damage was only slight.
I'll happily help, if I can.
This suggestion did not fit very happily with our existing plans.
I'm not going to play happy families just for the benefit of your parents.
a happy-go-lucky attitude
a happy-go-lucky sort of person
Players use a haptic device such as a joystick to control the game.
haram meat
They held a harambee meeting to raise funds for a new classroom.
the spirit of harambee
He has complained of being harassed by the police.
She claims she has been sexually harassed at work.
racial/sexual harassment
a harassed-looking waiter
harassed mothers with their children
Several boats lay at anchor in the harbour.
to enter/leave harbour
Police believe someone must be harbouring the killer.
The arsonist may harbour a grudge against the company.
She began to harbour doubts about the decision.
Your dishcloth can harbour many germs.
Wait for the concrete to go hard.
a hard mattress
Diamonds are the hardest known mineral.
a hard choice/question
It is hard to believe that she's only nine.
It's hard to see how they can lose.
'When will the job be finished?' 'It's hard to say (= it is difficult to be certain).'
I find his attitude very hard to take (= difficult to accept).
We're finding reliable staff hard to come by (= difficult to get).
It's hard for old people to change their ways.
It must be hard for her, bringing up four children on her own.
Times were hard at the end of the war.
She's had a hard life.
It's hard work shovelling snow.
I've had a long hard day.
She's a very hard worker.
He's hard at work on a new novel.
When I left they were all still hard at it (= working hard).
He gave the door a good hard kick.
a hard punch
My father was a hard man.
She gave me a hard stare.
He said some very hard things to me.
Come and get me if you think you're hard enough.
You think you're really hard, don't you?
Is there any hard evidence either way?
The newspaper story is based on hard facts.
It had been a hard winter.
There was a hard frost that night.
hard liquor
(informal) a drop of the hard stuff (= a strong alcoholic drink)
a hard water area
Our water is very hard.
water hardness
hardness of heart
'Failed again, I'm afraid.' 'Oh, hard luck.'
She won't listen to my advice so she'll just have to learn the hard way.
I can't be bothered making a hot meal—it's too much like hard work.
to work hard
You must try harder.
She tried her hardest not to show how disappointed she was.
Don't hit it so hard!
He was still breathing hard after his run.
Our victory was hard won (= won with great difficulty).
(figurative) Small businesses have been hit hard / hard hit by the recession.
to think hard
We thought long and hard before deciding to move house.
It was raining hard when we set off.
I have to work hard today.
She has thought very hard about her future plans.
It was raining hard outside.
I hardly ever go to concerts.
I can hardly wait for my birthday.
Turn hard right at the next junction.
His death followed hard on hers.
He took his wife's death very hard.
It's really only the hard core that bother(s) to go to meetings.
A hard core of drivers ignores the law.
hard-left policies
the judge's hard line against drug dealers
The government took a hard line on the strike.
subtitles for the deaf and the hard of hearing
hard-right opinions
to pull over onto the hard shoulder/into the breakdown lane
'You could always go out with Steve.' 'I'm not that hard up!'
He changed from a goofy kid to a hard-charging soldier.
hard-core party members
They sell hard-core pornography.
hard-earned cash
We finally managed a hard-earned draw.
the movie's hard-edged realism
a hard-fought battle/win/victory
a hard-hitting speech
a hard-line conservative
a hard-line attitude
a Republican hardliner
a hard-nosed journalist
You would be hard-pressed to find a better secretary.
a hard-wearing carpet
She was not going to give up her hard-won freedom so easily.
hard-working nurses
What's the price of the hardback?
It was published in hardback last year.
hardback books/editions
I want us to play hardball on this issue.
hardball politics
The varnish takes a few hours to harden.
a method for hardening and preserving wood
Her face hardened into an expression of hatred.
He hardened his voice when he saw she wasn't listening.
Public attitudes to the strike have hardened.
Their suspicions hardened into certainty.
The incident hardened her resolve to leave the company.
Joe sounded different, hardened by the war.
They were hardened criminals (= they showed no regret for their crimes).
In this job you have to harden your heart to pain and suffering.
hardening of the arteries
a hardening of attitudes towards one-parent families
a hardy breed of sheep
There's hardly any tea left.
Hardly anyone has bothered to reply.
She hardly ever calls me (= almost never).
We hardly know each other.
Hardly a day goes by without my thinking of her (= I think of her almost every day).
I can hardly keep my eyes open (= I'm almost falling asleep).
I could hardly believe it when I read the letter.
We can't stop for coffee now, we've hardly started.
We had hardly sat down to supper when the phone rang.
(formal) Hardly had she spoken than she regretted it bitterly.
He is hardly likely to admit he was wrong.
It's hardly surprising she was fired; she never did any work.
It's hardly the time to discuss it now.
You can hardly expect her to do it for free.
'Couldn't you have just said no?' 'Well, hardly (= of course not), she's my wife's sister.'
a hardscrabble life/upbringing
economic/financial, etc. hardship
People suffered many hardships during that long winter.
It was no hardship to walk home on such a lovely evening.
a hardware shop
tanks and other military hardware
Many aspects of morality appear to be hardwired in the brain.
a hare-brained scheme/idea/theory
Just hark at him! Who does he think he is?
She's always harking back to how things used to be.
The newest styles hark back to the clothes of the Seventies.
a Harley Street doctor
He would never frighten anyone or cause them any harm.
He may look fierce, but he means no harm.
The court case will do serious harm to my business.
The accident could have been much worse; luckily no harm was done.
Don't worry, we'll see that the children come to no harm.
I can't say I like Mark very much, but I don't wish him any harm.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
Look, we're just going out for a few drinks, where's the harm in that?
The treatment they gave him did him more harm than good.
It wouldn't do you any harm to smarten yourself up.
He may say no, but there's no harm in asking.
It does no harm to ask.
He would never harm anyone.
These revelations will harm her chances of winning the election.
the harmful effects of alcohol
the sun's harmful ultra-violet rays
Many household products are potentially harmful.
Fruit juices can be harmful to children's teeth.
The bacteria is harmless to humans.
It's just a bit of harmless fun.
The missile fell harmlessly into the sea.
the need to be in harmony with our environment
to live together in perfect harmony
social/racial harmony
to sing in harmony
to study four-part harmony
passionate lyrics and stunning vocal harmonies
the harmony of colour in nature
a harmonious combination of colours
They worked very harmoniously together.
The new building does not harmonize with its surroundings.
the need to harmonize tax levels across the European Union
a safety harness
to harness a horse
We harnessed two ponies to the cart.
(figurative) In some areas, the poor feel harnessed to their jobs.
attempts to harness the sun's rays as a source of energy
We must harness the skill and creativity of our workforce.
She has been harried by the press all week.
The punishment was harsh and unfair.
The minister received some harsh criticism.
the harsh treatment of slaves
He regretted his harsh words.
We had to face up to the harsh realities of life sooner or later.
a harsh winter/wind/climate
the harsh conditions of poverty which existed for most people at that time
harsh colours
She was caught in the harsh glare of the headlights.
the harsh lines of concrete buildings
a harsh voice
harsh detergents
She was treated very harshly.
Alec laughed harshly.
harvest time
Farmers are extremely busy during the harvest.
the grain harvest
a good/bad harvest (= a lot of crops or few crops)
(figurative) The appeal produced a rich harvest of blankets, medicines and clothing.
She had her eggs harvested and frozen for her own future use.
I made a real hash of the interview.
I often use hashtags to search for trending topics.
Send them an email—it's a lot less hassle than phoning.
legal hassles
Do as you're told and don't give me any hassle!
Don't keep hassling me! I'll do it later.
In her haste to complete the work on time, she made a number of mistakes.
The letter had clearly been written in haste.
After his first wife died, he married again with almost indecent haste.
(old-fashioned) She made haste to open the door.
She saw his frown and hastened to explain.
He has been described as a 'charmless bore'—not by me, I hasten to add.
The treatment she received may, in fact, have hastened her death.
News of the scandal certainly hastened his departure from office.
a hasty departure/meal/farewell
Let's not make any hasty decisions.
Perhaps I was too hasty in rejecting his offer.
Perhaps I spoke too hastily.
She hastily changed the subject.
a straw/woolly, etc. hat
to put on/take off a hat
I'm wearing two hats tonight—parent and teacher.
I'm telling you this with my lawyer's hat on, you understand.
to score a hat-trick
Ten chicks hatched (out) this morning.
The eggs are about to hatch.
The female must find a warm place to hatch her eggs.
Have you been hatching up a deal with her?
a serving hatch
an escape hatch
a hatch to the attic
a trout hatchery
The press did a very effective hatchet job on her last movie.
I hate spinach.
I hate Monday mornings.
I hate it when people cry.
He hated it in France (= did not like the life there).
I hate the way she always criticizes me.
She hates making mistakes.
He hated to be away from his family.
She's a person who hates to make mistakes.
I hate to think what would have happened if you hadn't been there.
He hates anyone parking in his space.
She would have hated him to see how her hands shook.
I'd hate anything to happen to him.
The two boys hated each other.
He was her most hated enemy.
I hated myself for feeling jealous.
I hate to say it, but I don't think their marriage will last.
I hate to trouble you, but could I use your phone?
I'm not a woman hater, I just don't like Joan.
a look of hate
a hate campaign (= cruel comments made about sb over a period of time in order to damage their reputation)
hate mail (= letters containing cruel comments)
Her deep hatred of her sister was obvious.
a cat's hatred of water
a look of pure hate
people filled with hate
Plastic flowers have always been a particular hate of mine.
the victim of a hate crime
I can't stand the sight of him!
a hateful person/place/face
The idea of fighting against men of their own race was hateful to them.
He looked at me with intense hatred.
There was fear and hatred in his voice.
She felt nothing but hatred for her attacker.
a profound hatred of war
feelings of hatred towards the bombers
racial hatred (= between people from different races)
The debate simply revived old hatreds.
a haughty face/look/manner
He replied with haughty disdain.
The wagons were hauled by horses.
He reached down and hauled Liz up onto the wall.
She hauled herself out of bed.
A number of suspects have been hauled in for questioning.
He was hauled up before the local magistrates for dangerous driving.
a haul of weapons
a drugs haul
His haul of 40 goals in a season is a record.
They began the long slow haul to the summit.
Our camp is only a short haul from here.
Take the coast road—it'll be less of a haul (= an easier journey).
the road haulage industry
a haulage firm/contractor
How much is haulage?
to crouch/squat on your haunches
a haunch of venison
A headless rider haunts the country lanes.
The memory of that day still haunts me.
For years she was haunted by guilt.
That decision came back to haunt him.
The pub is a favourite haunt of artists.
a haunted house
There was a haunted look in his eyes.
a haunting melody/experience/image
He thinks he can fool me but I've got his number.
He can't fool me—I've got him taped.
I was angry at the time but we had a good laugh about it afterwards.
The boss has a very high opinion of her.
to have a head for figures/business
She has a mind of her own and isn't afraid to say what she thinks.
(humorous) My computer seems to have a mind of its own!
We all have a part to play in the fight against crime.
I had a play with the new computer game.
I have no problem with you working at home tomorrow.
(informal) We are going to do this my way. Do you have a problem with that? (= showing that you are impatient with the person that you are speaking to)
She's always had a soft spot for you.
She has a thing about men with beards.
I'll have a think and let you know tomorrow.
You look like you've been in the wars—who gave you that black eye?
My mum'll have hysterics when she sees the colour of my hair.
I know you don't like him, but he has his uses.
The job isn't exciting all the time, but it has its moments.
'What's she talking about?' 'I've no idea.'
He hasn't the faintest idea how to manage people.
She had no stomach for the leftover stew.
They had no stomach for a fight.
I have no time for lazy people like Steve.
I've no use for people who don't make an effort.
I'm quite a fast worker, but I've got nothing on her!
It is always necessary to have regard to the terms of the contract.
I have my parents to thank for my success.
the conscious/subconscious mind
There were all kinds of thoughts running through my mind.
There was no doubt in his mind that he'd get the job.
'Drugs' are associated in most people's minds with drug abuse.
She was in a disturbed state of mind.
I could not have complete peace of mind before they returned.
to have a brilliant/good/keen mind
a creative/an evil/a suspicious mind
She had a lively and enquiring mind.
His mind is as sharp as ever.
I've no idea how her mind works!
He had the body of a man and the mind of a child.
insights into the criminal mind
She was one of the greatest minds of her generation.
Keep your mind on your work!
Her mind is completely occupied by the new baby.
The lecture dragged on and my mind wandered.
He gave his mind to the arrangements for the next day.
As for avoiding you, nothing could be further from my mind (= I was not thinking of it at all).
When I saw the exam questions my mind just went blank (= I couldn't remember anything).
Sorry—your name has gone right out of my mind.
Do you have anyone in mind for this job?
Watching TV all evening wasn't exactly what I had in mind!
They're both beautiful—I can't make up my mind.
Have you made up your minds where to go for your honeymoon?
You'll never persuade him to stay—his mind's made up (= he has definitely decided to go).
Come on—it's make your mind up time!
You've been on my mind all day.
Don't bother your father tonight—he's got a lot on his mind.
I just can't get her out of my mind.
She could have been a brilliant pianist if she'd put her mind to it.
It was a ridiculous thing to do, to my mind.
One of his paintings in particular sticks in my mind.
I don't mind the cold—it's the rain I don't like.
I hope you don't mind the noise.
He wouldn't have minded so much if she'd told him the truth.
Did she mind about not getting the job?
Did she mind not getting the job?
Do your parents mind you leaving home?
(formal) Do your parents mind your leaving home?
She never minded how hot it was.
He minded that he hadn't been asked.
Do you mind if I open the window?
Are you married, if you don't mind me asking?
(formal) Are you married, if you don't mind my asking?
Would you mind explaining that again, please?
Do you mind driving? I'm feeling pretty tired.
'Would you like tea or coffee?' 'I don't mind—either's fine.'
Don't mind her—she didn't mean what she said.
Don't mind me (= don't let me disturb you) —I'll just sit here quietly.
I don't mind helping if you can't find anyone else.
Mind (= Don't fall on) that step!
Mind your head!(= for example, be careful you don't hit it on a low ceiling)
Mind your language!(= don't speak in a rude or offensive way)
Mind how you go!(= often used when you say goodbye to sb)
Mind where you're treading!
Mind you don't cut yourself—that knife's very sharp.
You must be home for dinner, mind.
And the moral of the story is: always mind your mother!
Who's minding the children this evening?
Could you mind my bags for a moment?
I was scared, I don't mind telling you!
'Cup of tea, Brian?' 'I don't mind if I do.'
I'd like to ask you a few questions, if you don't mind.
Can you read that form carefully, if you wouldn't mind, and then sign it.
I give the orders around here, if you don't mind.
'Will you come with us tonight?' 'I won't, if you don't mind—I've got a lot of work to do.'
That colour doesn't really suit you, if you don't mind my saying so.
I wouldn't mind a cup of coffee, if it's no trouble.
I wouldn't mind having his money!
Who's minding the shop while the boss is abroad?
I've heard they're getting divorced. Mind you, I'm not surprised—they were always arguing.
Have you broken it? Never mind, we can buy another one.
This isn't where I intended to take you—but never mind, it's just as good.
I never thought she'd win once, never mind twice!
Never mind your car—what about the damage to my fence?
Never mind washing the dishes—I'll do them later.
'Who told you about it?' 'Never you mind!'
Never you mind how I found out—it's true, isn't it?
Watch your language, young man!
Mind out—you're in the way there!
Have some of my plum jam—but mind out for the stones.
She doesn't have much to say for herself (= doesn't take part in conversation).
He had plenty to say for himself (= he had a lot of opinions and was willing to talk).
Late again—what have you got to say for yourself (= what is your excuse)?
Oxford has a lot to offer visitors in the way of entertainment.
a young man with a great deal to offer (= who is intelligent, has many skills, etc.)
It was a performance with star quality written all over it.
This essay has got Mike written all over it.
May I have the honour of the next dance?
He's certainly got the right idea—retiring at 55.
Sorry, I've got to go.
Did she have to pay a fine?
You don't have to knock—just walk in.
I haven't got to leave till seven.
First, you have to think logically about your fears.
I have to admit, the idea of marriage scares me.
Do you have to go?
(especially BrE) Have you got to go?
You simply have to get a new job.
You've got to try this recipe—it's delicious.
There has to be a reason for his strange behaviour.
This war has got to end soon.
Of course, it had to start raining as soon as we got to the beach.
Do you have to hum so loudly?(= it is annoying)
She won't be happy until she's had her say.
You'll have your work cut out to get there by nine o'clock.
He took my place and got killed. It should have been me—that bullet had my name on it.
Are you coming for dinner this evening? I've got a steak here with your name on it!
He had all the answers off pat.
She plays an active part in local politics.
I want no part of this sordid business.
We in this party will have no truck with illegal organizations.
I offered to pay but he was having none of it.
The hotel is a haven of peace and tranquility.
The river banks are a haven for wildlife.
the division between the haves and the have-nots
I sometimes get worried in this job. Having said that, I enjoy doing it, it's a challenge.
The floods caused havoc throughout the area.
Continuing strikes are beginning to play havoc with the national economy.
These insects can wreak havoc on crops.
He waited, watching her like a hawk (= watching her very closely).
a bale of hay
In its heyday, the company ran trains every fifteen minutes.
a fine example from the heyday of Italian cinema
a picture of Brigitte Bardot in her heyday
a fire/safety hazard
Growing levels of pollution represent a serious health hazard to the local population.
Everybody is aware of the hazards of smoking.
hazard lights (= flashing lights on a car that warn other drivers of possible danger)
Would you like to hazard a guess?
'Is it Tom you're going with?' she hazarded.
I would hazard that she is the sole reason we are here.
Careless drivers hazard other people's lives as well as their own.
hazardous waste/chemicals
a hazardous journey
It would be hazardous to invest so much.
a list of products that are potentially hazardous to health
a heat haze
a haze of smoke/dust/steam
an alcoholic haze
a hazy afternoon/sky
hazy light/sunshine
The mountains were hazy in the distance.
a hazy memory/idea
What happened next is all very hazy.
I'm a little hazy about what to do next.
'Why now?' she wondered hazily.
The film was shot in HD.
Your DVDs will look better if connected through the HDMI socket.
Everyone liked my father—he was the perfect gentleman.
He (= the man we are watching) went through that door.
Every child needs to know that he is loved.
(saying) He who (= anyone who) hesitates is lost.
What a nice dog—is it a he or a she?
a he-goat
HE the Australian Ambassador
She nodded her head in agreement.
He shook his head in disbelief.
The boys hung their heads in shame.
The driver suffered head injuries.
She always has her head in a book (= is always reading).
He still has a good head of hair (= a lot of hair).
I sometimes wonder what goes on in that head of yours.
I wish you'd use your head (= think carefully before doing or saying sth).
The thought never entered my head.
I can't work it out in my head —I need a calculator.
I can't get that tune out of my head.
When will you get it into your head (= understand) that I don't want to discuss this any more!
For some reason, she's got it into her head (= believes) that the others don't like her.
Who's been putting such weird ideas into your head (= making you believe that)?
Try to put the exams out of your head (= stop thinking about them) for tonight.
She's a good head taller than her sister.
The favourite won by a short head (= a distance slightly less than the length of a horse's head).
I woke up with a really bad head this morning.
the heads of government/state
She resigned as head of department.
the crowned heads (= the kings and queens) of Europe
the head gardener/waiter, etc.
(BrE) the head boy/girl (= a student who is chosen to represent the school)
I've been called in to see the Head.
the deputy head
the head of a nail
at the head of the page
They finished the season at the head of their league.
The President sat at the head of the table.
The prince rode at the head of his regiment.
Remove the dead heads to encourage new growth.
200 head of sheep
to give head
He's fallen head over heels in love with his boss.
She managed to hold her head high and ignore what people were saying.
After a week in the new job, I soon realized that I was in over my head.
Tell him the truth if you want to, but on your own head be it!
A lot of the jokes went (= were) right over my head.
I couldn't help feeling jealous when she was promoted over my head.
I can't remember the name off the top of my head, but I can look it up for you.
Where are we heading?
Where are you two headed?
Let's head back home.
She headed for the door.
(figurative) Can you forecast where the economy is heading?
She has been appointed to head the research team.
Italy heads the table after two games.
to head a march/procession
The chapter was headed 'My Early Life'.
Walsh headed the ball into an empty goal.
We'll head them off at the bridge!
He headed off efforts to replace him as leader.
Their head office is in New York.
I don't know what head office will think about this proposal.
the physical head rush of being in love
Being able to speak French gave her a head start over the other candidates.
a head-on crash/collision
There was a head-on confrontation between management and unions.
The cars crashed head-on.
We hit the tree head-on.
to tackle a problem head-on (= without trying to avoid it)
a head-to-head battle/clash/contest
They are set to meet head-to-head in next week's final.
to suffer from headaches
Red wine gives me a headache.
I have a splitting headache (= a very bad one).
The real headache will be getting the bank to lend you the money.
to do a headcount
What's the latest headcount?
headed notepaper
a bald-headed man
a three-headed monster
protective headgear
I was headhunted by a marketing agency.
the heady scent of hot spices
a heady mixture of desire and fear
She felt heady with success.
chapter headings
The company's aims can be grouped under three main headings.
a headless body/corpse
He dipped his headlights (= directed the light downwards) for the oncoming traffic.
They ran the story under the headline 'Home at last!'.
The scandal was in the headlines for several days.
headline news
The story was headlined 'Back to the future'.
The concert is to be headlined by Steve Earle.
He had him in a headlock.
She fell headlong into the icy pool.
The government is taking care not to rush headlong into another controversy.
He ran headlong into a police car.
a headlong dive/rush
the village headman
a pair/set of headphones
News Corporation is headquartered in New York.
The firm's headquarters is/are in London.
Several companies have their headquarters in the area.
I'm now based at headquarters.
police headquarters
Headquarters in Dublin has/have agreed.
There's a lot of headroom for such a small car.
Send everyone a heads-up about the changes well in advance.
the headship of the department
The casting director looks through hundreds of headshots before selecting actors for auditions.
Whenever you read a book, you're entering the writer's headspace.
I could do with a bit of headspace just to think about what I'm doing.
We are making little headway with the negotiations.
The boat was unable to make much headway against the tide.
It took a long time for the wounds to heal.
The cut healed up without leaving a scar.
This will help to heal your cuts and scratches.
(figurative) It was a chance to heal the wounds in the party (= to repair the damage that had been done).
the story of Jesus healing ten lepers of their disease
I felt healed by his love.
She was never able to heal the rift between herself and her father.
The breach between them never really healed.
a faith/spiritual healer
Time is a great healer.
the healing process
emotional healing
Exhaust fumes are bad for your health.
to be in poor/good/excellent/the best of health
Smoking can seriously damage your health.
mental health
He was nursed back to health by his wife.
She was glowing with health and clearly enjoying life.
As long as you have your health, nothing else matters.
All parties are promising to increase spending on health.
the Health Minister
the Department of Health
health insurance
health and safety regulations (= laws that protect the health of people at work)
the health of your marriage/finances
I'd like to propose a toast to the bride and groom.
the costs of health care for the elderly
health care workers/professionals
a healthy child/animal/tree
Keep healthy by eating well and exercising regularly.
a healthy diet/climate/lifestyle
to have a healthy appetite
a shampoo that keeps hair looking healthy
The child showed a healthy curiosity.
She has a healthy respect for her rival's talents.
It's not healthy the way she clings to the past.
a healthy economy
Your car doesn't sound very healthy.
a healthy bank balance
a healthy profit
to eat healthily
The building was reduced to a heap of rubble.
a compost heap
His clothes lay in a heap on the floor.
Worn-out car tyres were stacked in heaps.
There's heaps of time before the plane leaves.
(NAmE) I've got a heap of things to do.
Help yourself—there's heaps more.
He looks heaps better than when I last saw him.
Rocks were heaped up on the side of the road.
She heaped food on my plate.
She heaped my plate with food.
He heaped praise on his team.
He heaped his team with praise.
a heaped teaspoon of sugar
heaping plates of scrambled eggs
I can't hear very well.
She heard footsteps behind her.
He could hear a dog barking.
Did you hear him go out?
Didn't you hear what I said?
She has been heard to make threats to her former lover.
Did you hear that play on the radio last night?
Be quiet— I can't hear myself think! (= it is so noisy that I can't think clearly)
We'd better hear what they have to say.
I hear what you're saying (= I have listened to your opinion), but you're wrong.
Haven't you heard? She resigned.
'I'm getting married.' 'So I've heard.'
Things are going well from what I hear.
I was sorry to hear about your accident.
I've heard about people like you.
We had heard nothing for weeks.
I was surprised to hear (that) he was married.
I hear you've been away this weekend.
I've heard it said (that) they met in Italy.
Did you hear what happened?
The appeal was heard in private.
Today the jury began to hear the evidence.
I've often heard tell of such things.
Let's hear it for the teachers, for a change.
That was the last I ever saw of her.
Unfortunately, I don't think we've heard the last of this affair.
The last I heard he was still working at the garage.
I look forward to hearing from you.
I haven't heard anything from her for months.
I've never heard of the place.
She disappeared and was never heard of again.
The last I heard of him he was living in Glasgow.
This is the first I've heard of it!
She wanted to walk home but I wouldn't hear of it.
He wouldn't hear of my walking home alone.
Her hearing is poor.
He's hearing-impaired (= not able to hear well).
a court/disciplinary hearing
to get/give sb a fair hearing
His views may be unfashionable but he deserves a hearing.
She shouldn't have said such things in your hearing.
I had no reason to believe there was anyone within hearing.
She had moved out of hearing.
to have/wear a hearing aid
We can't make a decision based on hearsay and guesswork.
hearsay evidence
The patient's heart stopped beating for a few seconds.
heart trouble/failure
to have a weak heart
I could feel my heart pounding in my chest (= because of excitement, etc.).
She clasped the photo to her heart.
She has a kind heart.
Have you no heart?
He returned with a heavy heart (= sad).
Her novels tend to deal with affairs of the heart.
The story captured the hearts and minds of a generation.
cold-hearted
kind-hearted
the heart of the matter/problem
The committee's report went to the heart of the government's dilemma.
The distinction between right and wrong lies at the heart of all questions of morality.
a quiet hotel in the very heart of the city
The words 'I love you' were written inside a big red heart.
(informal) I ♥New York.
the queen of hearts
Hearts is/are trumps.
Who played that heart?
They threw themselves heart and soul into the project.
Our hearts go out to the families of the victims.
My heart sank when I saw how much work there was left.
She watched him go with a sinking heart.
She knew in her heart of hearts that she was making the wrong decision.
It does my heart good to see the old place being taken care of so well.
The government can take heart from the latest opinion polls.
I hope with all my heart that things work out for you.
a heart-rending story
For one heart-stopping moment she thought they were too late.
to have a heart-to-heart with sb
a heart-to-heart talk
The relationship caused her a great deal of heartache.
the heartaches of being a parent
a rapid/regular heartbeat
The candidate said that he understood the heartbeat of the Hispanic community in California.
If I was offered another job, I'd leave in a heartbeat.
They suffered the heartbreak of losing a child through cancer.
a heartbreaking story
It's heartbreaking to see him wasting his life like this.
It is heartening to see the determination of these young people.
a heartfelt apology/plea/sigh
heartfelt sympathy/thanks
A log fire roared in the open hearth.
The cat dozed in its favourite spot on the hearth.
a longing for hearth and home
a hearty welcome
a hearty and boisterous fellow
a hearty voice
a hearty breakfast
to have a hearty appetite
He nodded his head in hearty agreement.
Hearty congratulations to everyone involved.
a hearty dislike of sth
to laugh/sing/eat heartily
I heartily agree with her on this.
heartily glad/relieved
the great Russian heartlands
the industrial heartland of Germany
the traditional Tory heartland of Britain's boardrooms
What a heartless thing to say!
to tug/pull at sb's heartstrings (= to cause such feelings in sb)
He could feel the heat of the sun on his back.
Heat rises.
The fire gave out a fierce heat.
to increase/reduce the heat
Test the heat of the water before getting in.
Set the oven to a low/high/moderate heat.
You should not go out in the heat of the day (= at the hottest time).
to suffer from the heat
the afternoon/midday heat
The heat in the factory was unbearable.
Return the pan to the heat and stir.
The heat wasn't on and the house was freezing.
'No, I won't,' he said with heat in his voice.
The chairman tried to take the heat out of the situation (= to make people calmer).
In the heat of the moment she forgot what she wanted to say (= because she was so angry or excited).
In the heat of the argument he said a lot of things he regretted later.
The heat is on now that the election is only a week away.
United turned up the heat on their opponents with a second goal.
Can she take the heat of this level of competition?
a qualifying heat
She won her heat.
He did well in the heats; hopefully he'll do as well in the final.
Heat the oil and add the onions.
The system produced enough energy to heat several thousand homes.
The oven takes a while to heat up.
The election contest is heating up.
Just heat up the food in the microwave.
heat-seeking missiles
a heated argument/debate
She became very heated.
a heated swimming pool
'You had no right!' she said heatedly.
a gas heater
a water heater
a Heath Robinson contraption
heathen gods
He set out to convert the heathen (= people who are heathens).
Who turned the heating off?
What type of heating do you have?
a gas heating system
heating bills
a heatproof dish
I managed to heave the trunk down the stairs.
They heaved the body overboard.
We all heaved on the rope.
The boat heaved beneath them.
Her shoulders heaved with laughter.
We all heaved a sigh of relief.
The thought of it makes me heave.
A ship hove into sight.
With a mighty heave he lifted the sack onto the truck.
the steady heave of the sea
the kingdom of heaven
I feel like I've died and gone to heaven.
This isn't exactly my idea of heaven!
It was heaven being away from the office for a week.
The island is truly a heaven on earth.
Four tall trees stretched up to the heavens.
Now that he's been promoted he's in seventh heaven.
our heavenly Father (= God)
the heavenly kingdom
heavenly bodies (= the sun, moon, stars and planets)
a heavenly morning/feeling
This place is heavenly.
to cast/raise your eyes heavenward (= to show you are annoyed or impatient)
She was struggling with a heavy suitcase.
My brother is much heavier than me.
He tried to push the heavy door open.
How heavy is it (= how much does it weigh)?
(especially NAmE) Many young people today are too heavy (= fat).
(figurative) Her father carried a heavy burden of responsibility.
the noise of heavy traffic
heavy frost/rain/snow
the effects of heavy drinking
There was heavy fighting in the capital last night.
The penalty for speeding can be a heavy fine.
She spoke with heavy irony.
big, dark rooms full of heavy furniture
He was tall and strong, with heavy features.
heavy curtains
a heavy coat
trees heavy with apples
The air was heavy with the scent of flowers.
His voice was heavy with sarcasm.
a wide range of engines and heavy machinery
heavy lorries/trucks
a heavy schedule
She'd had a heavy day.
heavy digging/lifting
a heavy fall/blow
a heavy lunch/dinner
a heavy cake
a heavy drinker/smoker
a heavy sleeper
heavy breathing/snoring
a heavy groan/sigh
Older cars are heavy on gas.
Don't go so heavy on the garlic.
We found the play very heavy.
The discussion got a little heavy.
strong winds and heavy seas
It's very heavy—I think there'll be a storm.
Don't be so heavy on her—it wasn't her fault.
Illness had taken a heavy toll on her.
The recession is taking its toll on the housing markets.
a pint of heavy
It was raining heavily.
to drink/smoke heavily
heavily armed police (= carrying a lot of weapons)
a heavily pregnant woman (= one whose baby is nearly ready to be born)
They are both heavily involved in politics.
He relies heavily on his parents.
She has been heavily criticized in the press.
She fell heavily to the ground.
She was now breathing heavily.
He was snoring heavily.
He sighed heavily.
Silence hung heavily in the room.
The burden of guilt weighed heavily on his mind.
a heavily loaded van
The place was heaving with journalists.
The film still has a lot of heavy lifting to do to make $40 million.
Much of the heavy lifting in this report was done by the expert writers.
a heavy-duty carpet
I think you need some heavy-duty advice.
a heavy-handed approach
heavy-handed police methods
Don't be too heavy-handed with the salt.
a heavyweight champion
a political heavyweight
a heavyweight journal
Hebraic poetry
Oh heck, I'm going to be late!
We had to wait a heck of a long time!
Who the heck are you?
It means I'll be late for work but what the heck!
He was booed and heckled throughout his speech.
to lead a hectic life
a hectic schedule
hectometre
a hectoring tone of voice
a privet hedge
to buy gold as a hedge against inflation
Just answer 'yes' or 'no'—and stop hedging.
His religious belief was always hedged with doubt.
Their offer was hedged around with all sorts of conditions.
a way of hedging against currency risks
The cathedral is now hedged in by other buildings.
(figurative) Married life made him feel hedged in and restless.
shoes with a low/high heel
a stiletto heel
The sergeant clicked his heels and walked out.
high-heeled shoes
She doesn't often wear heels.
We were kicking our heels, waiting for some customers.
The boat heeled over in the strong wind.
The two men hefted the box into the car.
Anna took the old sword and hefted it in her hands.
She was surprised by the sheer heft of the package.
Her brothers were both hefty men in their forties.
They sold it easily and made a hefty profit.
He gave the door a hefty kick.
hegemonic control
The case was referred to a higher court.
higher mathematics
My mind was on higher things.
Height: 210 mm. Width: 57 mm. Length: 170 mm.
Please state your height and weight.
It is almost 2 metres in height.
She is the same height as her sister.
to be of medium/average height
You can adjust the height of the chair.
The table is available in several different heights.
She worries about her height (= that she is too tall).
The height of the mountain did not discourage them.
The plane flew at a height of 3 000 metres.
The stone was dropped from a great height.
The aircraft was gaining height.
to be at shoulder/chest/waist height
Brooklyn Heights
He doesn't have a head for heights (= is afraid of high places).
a fear of heights
We looked out over the city from the heights of Edinburgh Castle.
The pattern of the ancient fields is clearly visible from a height.
He is at the height of his career.
She is still at the height of her powers.
I wouldn't go there in the height of summer.
The fire reached its height around 2 a.m.
The crisis was at its height in May.
Their success had reached new heights.
It would be the height of folly (= very stupid) to change course now.
She was dressed in the height of fashion.
Tension has heightened after the recent bomb attack.
The campaign is intended to heighten public awareness of the disease.
a heinous crime
to be heir to a large fortune
the heir to the throne (= the person who will be the next king or queen)
the president's political heirs
a hierarchical society/structure/organization
the social/political hierarchy
She's quite high up in the management hierarchy.
a hierarchy of needs
a family heirloom
a bank heist
He was rushed to the hospital by helicopter.
a police helicopter
a helicopter pilot
the heliocentric model of the solar system
The last three months have been hell.
He went through hell during the trial.
Her parents made her life hell.
Being totally alone is my idea of hell on earth.
Oh hell, I've burned the pan.
What the hell do you think you are doing?
Go to hell!
I can't really afford it, but, what the hell (= it doesn't matter), I'll get it anyway.
He's as guilty as hell.
(NAmE) 'Do you understand?' 'Hell, no. I don't.'
to ride hell for leather
She worked like hell for her exams.
My broken finger hurt like hell.
'I'm coming with you.' 'Like hell you are.' (= you certainly are not)
We'd been to hell and back together and we were still good friends.
'To hell with him,' she thought, 'I'm leaving.'
The doctors did not hold out much hope for her recovery.
He seems hell-bent on drinking himself to death.
Hello John, how are you?
Hello, is there anybody there?
Say hello to Liz for me.
They exchanged hellos (= said hello to each other) and forced smiles.
'Hello, Mark.' 'Oh, hi, Kathy! How are you?'
Hello, hello, what's going on here?
Hello? You didn't really mean that, did you?
I'm like, 'Hello! Did you even listen?'
Help, I'm stuck!
He always helps with the housework.
We must all try and help each other.
Jo will help us with some of the organization.
I need contacts that could help in finding a job.
The college's aim is to help students (to) achieve their aspirations.
This charity aims to help people (to) help themselves.
Come and help me lift this box.
She helped (to) organize the party.
Would you like me to help you with that?
Can I give you a hand?
Can I help you with that?
Shall I carry that for you?(BrE or formal, NAmE)
Would it help if I spoke to Julie before you call her?
Let me take your bag.
If there's anything I can do (to help), let me know.
That's very kind/nice/generous/thoughtful of you. Thank you.
It's all right, thank you. I can manage/do it.
Thanks. That would be very helpful.
It helped being able to talk about it.
It doesn't really help matters knowing that everyone is talking about us.
This should help (to) reduce the pain.
She helped him to his feet.
We were helped ashore by local people.
If you want another drink, just help yourself.
Can I help you to some more salad?
He'd been helping himself to the money in the cash register.
I can't help thinking he knows more than he has told us.
She couldn't help but wonder what he was thinking.
It couldn't be helped (= there was no way of avoiding it and we must accept it).
I always end up having an argument with her, I don't know why, I just can't help it.
I couldn't help it if the bus was late (= it wasn't my fault).
She burst out laughing—she couldn't help herself (= couldn't stop herself).
Let me help you off with your coat.
He's always willing to help out.
When I bought the house, my sister helped me out with a loan.
Thank you for all your help.
Do you need any help with that?
Can I be of any help to you?
None of this would have been possible without their help.
She stopped smoking with the help of her family and friends.
to seek financial/legal/medical, etc. help
The organization offers practical help in dealing with paperwork.
You should qualify for help with the costs of running a car.
a help key/screen (= a function on a computer that provides information on how to use the computer)
The map wasn't much help.
With the help of a ladder, neighbours were able to rescue the children from the blaze.
Just shouting at him isn't going to be a lot of help.
Quick, get help!
She screamed for help.
She was more of a hindrance than a help.
Your advice was a big help.
(ironic) You're a great help, I must say!
There's no help for it. We shall have to call the police.
a willing helper
helpful advice/information/suggestions
Sorry I can't be more helpful.
It would be helpful for me to see the damage for myself.
Role-play is helpful in developing communication skills.
The booklet should be very helpful to parents of disabled children.
I called the police but they weren't very helpful.
The staff couldn't have been more helpful.
She helpfully suggested that I try the local library.
a small/generous helping
We all had a second helping of pie.
the helpless victims of war
a helpless gesture/look
He lay helpless on the floor.
It's natural to feel helpless against such abuse.
The worst part is being helpless to change anything.
helpless panic/rage
The audience was helpless with laughter.
They watched helplessly as their home went up in flames.
a feeling/sense of helplessness
a helter-skelter dash to meet the deadline
to take up the hem of a dress (= to make the dress shorter)
to hem a skirt
The village is hemmed in on all sides by mountains.
(figurative) She felt hemmed in by all their petty rules and regulations.
the northern/southern hemisphere
the left/right cerebral hemisphere
Shorter hemlines are back in this season.
hemophilia
a small flock of laying hens
battery hens
a hen pheasant
We suspect they are trying to hide something, hence the need for an independent inquiry.
Today's children eat more junk food and get less exercise than previous generations of children. It is not surprising, therefore, that rates of childhood obesity are on the increase.
Children who grow up on a diet of junk food find it difficult to change this habit later in life. It is essential, therefore, that parents encourage healthy eating from an early age.
Children who grow up on a diet of junk food find it difficult to change this habit later in life. For this reason,/ This is why it is essential that children eat healthily from an early age.
Eating habits formed in childhood tend to continue into adult life. Thus, the best way to prevent heart disease among adults is to encourage healthy eating from an early age.
Eating habits formed in childhood tend to continue into adult life, hence the importance of encouraging healthy eating from an early age.
Friday 31 July 1925 henceforth became known as 'Red Friday'.
We're going to call her Sophie.
Please give her my regards.
The manager will be free soon—you can wait for her here.
That must be her now.
Meg loves her job.
She broke her leg skiing.
These talks could herald a new era of peace.
The report is being heralded as a blueprint for the future of transport.
The government claims that the fall in unemployment is the herald of economic recovery.
a herb garden
(NAmE) an herb garden
a herbaceous plant
herbal medicine/remedies
herbivorous dinosaurs
a Herculean task
a herd of cows/deer/elephants
a beef/dairy herd
She pushed her way through a herd of lunchtime drinkers.
the common herd (= ordinary people)
Why follow the herd (= do and think the same as everyone else)?
police riding herd on crowds of youths on the streets
We all herded on to the bus.
They were herded together into trucks and driven away.
a shepherd herding his flock
I live here.
Put the box here.
Let's get out of here.
Come over here.
The countdown to Christmas starts here.
Here the speaker paused to have a drink.
Here's the money I promised you.
Here's a dish that is simple and quick to make.
Here is your opportunity.
Here comes the bus.
I can't find my keys. Oh, here they are.
Here we are (= we've arrived).
I'm here to help you.
My friend here saw it happen.
Papers were scattered here and there on the floor.
Here's to your future happiness!
'Here we go,' thought Fred, 'she's sure to say something.'
Here you are. This is what you were asking for.
Here you go. Four copies, is that right?
What might have happened is neither here nor there.
As soon as I get my money I'm out of here!
Here, where are you going with that ladder?
Here, let me carry that for you.
There aren't many houses hereabouts.
Do you believe in a life hereafter?
a hereditary illness/disease/condition/problem
Epilepsy is hereditary in her family.
a hereditary title/monarchy
hereditary peers/rulers
the debate over the effects of heredity and environment
Neither party is willing to compromise and herein lies the problem.
a period of 12 months from the date hereof (= the date of this document)
He was burned at the stake for heresy.
the heresies of the early Protestants
The idea is heresy to most employees of the firm.
heretical beliefs
I enclose herewith a copy of the policy.
Spain's rich cultural heritage
The building is part of our national heritage.
the strange, hermetic world of the theatre
a hermetically sealed container
a war hero (= sb who was very brave during a war)
The Olympic team were given a hero's welcome on their return home.
one of the country's national heroes
The hero of the novel is a ten-year old boy.
my childhood hero
a heroic figure
Rescuers made heroic efforts to save the crew.
We watched our team's heroic struggle to win back the cup.
a heroic story/poem
heroic deeds/myths
This was foolishness on a heroic scale.
Remember, no heroics, we just go in there and do our job.
Thanks to Bateman's heroics in the second half, the team won 2–0.
a heroin addict
the heroines of the revolution
The heroine is played by Demi Moore.
Madonna was her teenage heroine.
shoals of herring
fresh herring fillets
pickled herrings
His eyes met hers.
The choice was hers.
a friend of hers
She hurt herself.
She must be very proud of herself.
She told me the news herself.
Jane herself was at the meeting.
I noticed a certain hesitancy in his voice.
a hesitant smile
the baby's first few hesitant steps
She's hesitant about signing the contract.
Doctors are hesitant to comment on the new treatment.
She hesitated before replying.
I didn't hesitate for a moment about taking the job.
'I'm not sure,' she hesitated.
Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any queries.
She agreed without the slightest hesitation.
I have no hesitation in recommending her for the job.
He spoke fluently and without unnecessary hesitations.
What are you getting so het up about?
heterogeneous
heterosexual
the heterogeneous population of the United States
a heterosexual relationship
to hew wood
roughly hewn timber frames
The statues were hewn out of solid rock.
to put a hex on sb
The number 107 is represented in hexadecimal as 6B.
Hey, can I just ask you something?
Hey, leave my things alone!
That's the third time I've been late this week—but hey!—who's counting?
Thanks for your help, hey.
My new bike's nice, hey?
This is probably a bad idea, but what the hey!
You just press the button and, hey presto, a perfect cup of coffee!
You need an HGV licence for this job.
Hi guys!
Hi, there! How're you doing?
a hi-fi system
She gave a loud hiccup.
I ate too quickly and got hiccups.
He had the hiccups.
There was a slight hiccup in the timetable.
I was just a hick from Texas then.
a hick town
I keep my private papers hidden.
They hid me from the police in their attic.
Quick, hide!
I hid under the bed.
(figurative) He hid behind a false identity.
She hides herself away in her office all day.
He hid his face in his hands.
The house was hidden by trees.
No amount of make-up could hide her age.
She struggled to hide her disappointment.
I have never tried to hide the truth about my past.
They claim that they have nothing to hide (= there was nothing wrong or illegal about what they did).
She felt sure the letter had some hidden meaning.
boots made from buffalo hide
All he's worried about is his own hide (= himself).
To save his own skin, he lied and blamed the accident on his friend.
There are fears of a hidden agenda behind this new proposal.
a hideous face/building/dress
Their new colour scheme is hideous!
a hideous crime
The whole experience had been like some hideous nightmare.
His face was hideously deformed.
After the trial, she had to go into hiding for several weeks.
He only came out of hiding ten years after the war was over.
We spent months in hiding.
to give sb/get a (good) hiding
(figurative) The team got a hiding in their last game.
What's the highest mountain in the US?
The house has a high wall all the way round it.
shoes with high heels
He has a round face with a high forehead.
How high is Mount Aconcagua?
It's only a low wall—about a metre high.
The grass was waist-high.
a high branch/shelf/window
The rooms had high ceilings.
They were flying at high altitude.
the grasslands of the high prairies
The fence is over five metres high.
He has climbed some of the world's highest mountains.
How high was the plane when the engine failed?
My brother's much taller than me.
She ordered cold beer in a tall glass.
tall factory chimneys
a high temperature/speed/price
a high rate of inflation
Demand is high at this time of year.
a high level of pollution
a high standard of craftsmanship
high-quality goods
A high degree of accuracy is needed.
The tree blew over in the high winds.
We had high hopes for the business (= we believed it would be successful).
The cost in terms of human life was high.
foods which are high in fat
a high potassium content
a high-fat diet
She has held high office under three prime ministers.
He has friends in high places (= among people of power and influence).
to play for high stakes
My highest card is ten.
a man of high ideals/principles
She is held in very high regard by her colleagues.
You seem to have a high opinion of yourself!
She has a high voice.
That note is definitely too high for me.
high noon
high summer
The job requires diplomatic skills of a high order.
She was a snob of the first order.
It's about time you cleaned your room!
Profits reached an all-time high last year.
A high over southern Europe is bringing fine, sunny weather to all parts.
Highs today will be in the region of 25°C.
The high lasted all night.
He was on a real high after winning the competition.
the highs and lows of her acting career
He graduated from Little Rock High in 1982.
We gazed down into the valley from on high.
An order came down from on high that lunchbreaks were to be half an hour and no longer.
The disaster was seen as a judgement from on high.
An eagle circled high overhead.
I can't jump any higher.
She never got very high in the company.
His desk was piled high with papers.
She's aiming high (= hoping to be very successful) in her exams.
Prices are expected to rise even higher this year.
I can't sing that high.
I've searched high and low for my purse.
Feelings ran high as the election approached.
Files were strewn higgledy-piggledy over the floor.
a higgledy-piggledy collection of houses
the United Nations High Commission for Refugees
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
Way to go! High five!
The government is claiming the high ground in the education debate.
high-heeled shoes/boots
She won a silver medal in the high jump.
It was the high point of the evening.
Water is forced through the pipes at high pressure.
(figurative) Janis Joplin was known as the High Priestess of Rock.
This is the high road to democracy.
He took the high road in his campaign.
Worthing High School
Peckham High Street
106 High Street, Peckham
high-street banks/shops
You can't walk along this beach at high tide.
Fishing is good at high water.
a high-class restaurant
to stay in high-class accommodation
to come from a high-class background
“Honey, I Shrunk the Kids” is a high-concept comedy about a scientist who accidentally, well, shrinks his kids.
high-definition television
high-definition displays
His high-flown style just sounds absurd today.
academic high-flyers
a high-flying career woman
high-grade petrol
high-level talks/negotiations
high-level staff
a high-level walk in the hills
a high-level course
a high-maintenance girlfriend
a high-octane athlete
a high-performance car/computer, etc.
a high-pitched voice/whistle
high-powered executives
a high-powered job
a high-powered car/computer, etc.
high-pressure sales techniques
a high-pressure job
a high-pressure water jet
high-priced housing/cars
a high-profile campaign
a high-ranking officer/official
a high-ranking post
a high-resolution scan
high-rise housing
to live in a high-rise
a high-risk sport
high-risk patients (= who are very likely to get a particular illness)
a high-security prison
a high-speed train
a high-speed car chase
a high-spirited child
high-spirited behaviour
high-tech industries
a high-tech table made of glass and steel
high-tension wires/cables
high-top sneakers
cyclists with high-visibility jackets
Hard hats and high-vis vests must be worn on the building site.
a high-visibility ad campaign
(figurative) the high-water mark of Parisian fashion (= the most successful time)
They highballed out of town.
He thought she was highballing her salary requirements.
highbrow newspapers
highbrow readers
highland regions
The report highlights the major problems facing society today.
I've highlighted the important passages in yellow.
One of the highlights of the trip was seeing the Taj Mahal.
The highlights of the match will be shown later this evening.
highly successful/skilled/intelligent
highly competitive/critical/sensitive
It is highly unlikely that she'll be late.
highly trained/educated
a highly paid job
His teachers think very highly of him (= have a very good opinion of him).
She speaks highly of you.
Her novels are very highly regarded.
a sensitive and highly-strung child
Their new horse is very highly strung.
an interstate highway
Highway patrol officers closed the road.
A parked car was obstructing the highway.
The plane was hijacked by two armed men on a flight from London to Rome.
There have been a series of hijackings recently in the area.
an unsuccessful hijack
They went on a ten-mile hike through the forest.
We could go into town but it's a real hike (= a long way) from here.
a tax/price hike
the latest hike in interest rates
strong boots for hiking over rough country
(NAmE) to hike the Rockies
If the weather's fine, we'll go hiking this weekend.
The government hiked up the price of milk by over 40%.
She hiked up her skirt and waded into the river.
to go hiking
hiking boots
a hilarious joke/story
Lynn found the whole situation hilarious.
Do you know Pete? He's hilarious.
hilariously funny
a region of gently rolling hills
a hill farm/town/fort
The house is built on the side of a hill overlooking the river.
I love walking in the hills (= in the area where there are hills).
Always take care when driving down steep hills.
a hill start (= the act of starting a vehicle on a slope)
a hilly area/region
The crops will not grow on exposed hillsides.
Our hotel was on the hillside overlooking the lake.
the hilltop town of Urbino
When did you see him?
He took the children with him.
I'm taller than him.
It's him.
He introduced himself.
Peter ought to be ashamed of himself.
The doctor said so himself.
Did you see the manager himself?
The horse reared up on its hind legs.
a political situation that hinders economic growth
Some teachers felt hindered by a lack of resources.
An injury was hindering him from playing his best.
To be honest, she was more of a hindrance than a help.
The high price is a major hindrance to potential buyers.
They were able to complete their journey without further hindrance.
With hindsight it is easy to say they should not have released him.
What looks obvious in hindsight was not at all obvious at the time.
It's easy to criticize with the benefit of hindsight.
a Hindu temple
The door had been pulled off its hinges.
a hinged door/lid
Everything hinges on the outcome of these talks.
His success hinges on how well he does at the interview.
He gave a broad hint (= one that was obvious) that he was thinking of retiring.
Should I drop a hint (= give a hint ) to Matt?
At the first hint of trouble, they left.
a hint of a smile
There was more than a hint of sadness in his voice.
The walls were painted white with a hint of peach.
handy hints on saving money
I thought they'd never go—some people just can't take a hint.
Sarah hoped he'd take the hint and leave her alone.
What are you hinting at?
They hinted (that) there might be more job losses.
'I might know something about it,' he hinted.
the rural/agricultural hinterland
She stood with her hands on her hips.
These jeans are too tight around the hips.
a hip replacement operation
the hip bone
She broke her hip in the fall.
large-hipped
slim-hipped
'Three cheers for the bride and groom : Hip, hip…' 'Hooray!'
a pair of hipsters
hipster jeans
to hire a car/room/video
She was hired three years ago.
He does the hiring and firing in our company.
to hire a lawyer
They hired a firm of consultants to design the new system.
He hired himself out to whoever needed his services.
bicycles for hire, £2 an hour
a hire car
a car hire firm
The price includes the hire of the hall.
The costumes are on hire from the local theatre.
a hire purchase agreement
We're buying a new cooker on hire purchase.
James has sold his car.
He broke his leg skiing.
He took my hand in his.
The choice was his.
a friend of his
the Hispano-French border
Hispanophile
The steam escaped with a loud hissing noise.
The snake lifted its head and hissed.
He was booed and hissed off the stage.
He hissed at them to be quiet.
'Leave me alone!' she hissed.
the hiss of the air brakes
the snake's hiss
The performance was met with boos and hisses.
She threw a hissy fit because her dressing room wasn't painted blue.
a historic building/monument
The area is of special historic interest.
a historic occasion/decision/day/visit/victory
Today is a historic occasion for our country.
I have been doing some historical research.
Was Robin Hood a historical figure?
in historic times
the historical background to the war
You must place these events in their historical context.
historical documents/records/research
The building is of historical importance.
a historical novel
The book is historically inaccurate.
Historically, there has always been a great deal of rivalry between the two families.
a turning point in human history
one of the worst disasters in recent history
a people with no sense of history
Many people throughout history have dreamt of a world without war.
The area was inhabited long before the dawn of recorded history (= before people wrote about events).
These events changed the course of history.
the history of Ireland/democracy/popular music
The local history of the area is fascinating.
The school traces its history back to 1865.
a history teacher
a degree in History
social/economic/political history
ancient/medieval/modern history
She's studying art history.
She's writing a new history of Europe.
She went on to catalogue a long history of disasters.
He has a history of violent crime.
There is a history of heart disease in my family.
a patient's medical history
He was a history-sheeter who had served two years in jail for his crimes.
She was used to her mother's histrionics.
My parents never used to hit me.
He hit the nail squarely on the head with the hammer.
She hit him on the head with her umbrella.
The bus hit the bridge.
I was hit by a falling stone.
He hit his head on the low ceiling.
The town was hit by bombs again last night.
He was hit by a sniper.
She hit the ball too hard and it went out of the court.
We've hit our ball over the fence!
to hit a home run
The tax increases will certainly hit the poor.
His death didn't really hit me at first.
Rural areas have been worst hit by the strike.
Spain was one of the hardest hit countries.
A tornado hit on Tuesday night.
We hit the enemy when they least expected it.
Follow this footpath and you'll eventually hit the road.
The President hits town tomorrow.
Temperatures hit 40° yesterday.
The euro hit a record low in trading today.
We seem to have hit a problem.
Everything was going well but then we hit trouble.
I couldn't remember where I'd seen him before, and then it suddenly hit me.
Hit the brakes!
Hit it, Louis!
We hit it off straight away.
The new magazine hits the streets tomorrow.
We hit a wall and we weren't scoring.
Her face went pale as his words hit home.
He blushed furiously and Robyn knew she had hit the mark.
You touched a raw nerve when you mentioned his first wife.
In a TV interview she hit back at her critics.
She hit on the perfect title for her new novel.
I just hit out blindly in all directions.
In a rousing speech the minister hit out at racism in the armed forces.
Does he always hit you up for cash when he wants new clothes?
How much is it going to cost, then? Come on, hit me with it!
Give it a good hit.
He made the winning hit.
The bomber scored a direct hit on the bridge.
We finished the first round with a score of two hits and six misses.
The duo were a real hit in last year's show.
a hit musical
Her new series is a smash hit.
They are about to release an album of their greatest hits.
She played all her old hits.
a hit record/single
Our website is getting a lot of hits from the USA.
How many hits did you get?
The airline industry took a hit last year.
Which services are on the government's hit list?
She was at the top of the terrorists' hit list for over two years.
a hit-and-run accident/death
a hit-and-run driver (= one who causes an accident but drives away without helping)
hit-and-run raids
He was killed in a hit-and-run.
They hitched a ride in a truck.
(BrE also ) They hitched a lift.
We spent the summer hitching around Europe.
She hitched up her skirt and waded into the river.
She hitched herself up.
He hitched himself onto the bar stool.
She hitched the pony to the gate.
The ceremony went off without a hitch.
a technical hitch
a clove hitch
They hitchhiked around Europe.
He picked up two hitchhikers on the road to Bristol.
a hitherto unknown species of moth
a big/long/hard hitter
the heavy hitters of Japanese industry
to be infected with HIV
to be HIV-positive/HIV-negative (= to have had a medical test which shows that you are/are not infected with HIV)
The IT department is being hived off into a new company.
HM the Queen
HM Customs
HMS Apollo
to do an HNC in electrical engineering
to do an HND in fashion design
Ho, ho! What have we here?
a hoary old joke
He shouted himself hoarse.
a hoarse cough/cry/scream
Ian, our host, introduced us to the other guests.
The college is playing host to a group of visiting Russian scientists.
a TV game show host
a host of possibilities
transferring files from the host to your local computer
South Africa hosted the World Cup finals.
to host a dinner
a company that builds and hosts e-commerce sites
a bomb hoax
hoax calls
an electric/a gas hob
Her hobbies include swimming and gardening.
I only play jazz as a hobby.
The old man hobbled across the road.
to get on your hobby horse (= talk about your favourite subject)
to play hockey
a hockey stick/player/team
to hoe the flower beds
to hog the road (= to drive so that other vehicles cannot pass)
to hog the bathroom (= to spend a long time in it so that others cannot use it)
He hoisted himself onto a high stool.
The cargo was hoisted aboard by crane.
to hoist a flag/sail
What a bunch of hokum!
I held the mouse by its tail.
The girl held her father's hand tightly.
He was holding the baby in his arms.
The winning captain held the trophy in the air.
We were holding hands (= holding each other's hands).
The lovers held each other close.
She groaned and held her head.
Hold your head up.
Hold this position for a count of 10.
The wood is held in position by a clamp.
I had to hold my stomach in (= pull the muscles flat) to zip up my jeans.
I'll hold the door open for you.
I don't think that branch will hold your weight.
This barrel holds 25 litres.
The plane holds about 300 passengers.
Police are holding two men in connection with last Thursday's bank raid.
He was held prisoner for two years.
The rebels held the radio station.
They were afraid the dam wouldn't hold.
How long will the fine weather hold?
If their luck holds, they could still win the championship.
There wasn't much in the museum to hold my attention.
Hold your speed at 70.
records held on computer
Our solicitor holds our wills.
We can hold your reservation for three days.
Employees hold 30% of the shares.
How long has he held office?
Who holds the world record for the long jump?
She held the title of world champion for three years.
He holds strange views on education.
She is held in high regard by her students (= they have a high opinion of her).
firmly-held beliefs
I still hold that the government's economic policies are mistaken.
Parents will be held responsible for their children's behaviour.
These vases are held to be the finest examples of Greek art.
The meeting will be held in the community centre.
It's impossible to hold a conversation with all this noise.
That extension is busy right now. Can you hold?
She asked me to hold the line.
Hold your fire! (= don't shoot)
Hold the front page! (= don't print it until a particular piece of news is available)
(NAmE, informal) Give me a hot dog, but hold the (= don't give me any) mustard.
The same argument does not hold good in every case.
Hold it a second—I don't think everyone's arrived yet.
Once she gets on to the subject of politics there's no holding her.
I admit I made a mistake—but don't hold it against me.
The police were unable to hold back the crowd.
Do you think that mixed-ability classes hold back the better students?
to hold back information
She just managed to hold back her anger.
He bravely held back his tears.
She held back, not knowing how to break the terrible news.
I wanted to tell him the truth, but something held me back.
It took three men to hold him down.
The people are held down by a repressive regime.
The rate of inflation must be held down.
He was unable to hold down a job after his breakdown.
Hold it down, will you? I'm trying to sleep!
to hold in your feelings/anger
The rain held off just long enough for us to have our picnic.
We could get a new computer now or hold off until prices are lower.
Could you hold off making your decision for a few days?
She held off all the last-minute challengers and won the race in a new record time.
Hold on a minute while I get my breath back.
Hold on! This isn't the right road.
They managed to hold on until help arrived.
Can you hold on? I'll see if he's here.
These nuts and bolts hold the wheels on.
The knob is only held on by sticky tape.
Hold on and don't let go until I say so.
He held on to the back of the chair to stop himself from falling.
You should hold on to your oil shares.
She took an early lead in the race and held on to it for nine laps.
I'll hold on to your mail for you until you get back.
We can stay here for as long as our supplies hold out.
The rebels held out in the mountains for several years.
Doctors hold out little hope of her recovering.
I held out my hand to steady her.
He held out the keys and I took them.
The union negotiators are holding out for a more generous pay settlement.
The matter was held over until the next meeting.
The movie proved so popular it was held over for another week.
The league leaders were held to a 0–0 draw.
A political party should hold together.
It's the mother who usually holds the family together.
Their case doesn't hold together when you look at the evidence.
She's holding up well under the pressure.
An accident is holding up traffic.
My application was held up by the postal strike.
She's always holding up her children as models of good behaviour.
His ideas were held up to ridicule.
I don't hold with the use of force.
They don't hold with letting children watch as much TV as they want.
His hold on her arm tightened.
She tried to keep hold of the child's hand.
Make sure you've got a steady hold on the camera.
The wrestler put his opponent into a head hold.
What she knew about his past gave her a hold over him.
He struggled to get a hold of his anger.
She put her career on hold to have a baby.
The project is on hold until more money is available.
Panic took hold of him and he couldn't move.
They got out of the house just before the flames took hold.
It is best to treat the disease early before it takes a hold.
Let's hold thumbs that you get the job.
Business isn't good but we're managing to hold our own.
She can hold her own against anybody in an argument.
The patient is holding her own although she is still very sick.
What's the hold-up?
We should finish by tonight, barring hold-ups.
(BrE) Sorry I'm late. There was a hold-up on the motorway.
a licence holder
a season ticket holder
the current holder of the world record
holders of high office
the holder of a French passport
a pen holder
She has a 40% holding in the company.
one of the most important private holdings of Indian art
He dug a deep hole in the garden.
The bomb blew a huge hole in the ground.
Water had collected in the holes in the road.
to drill/bore/punch/kick a hole in sth
There were holes in the knees of his trousers.
The children climbed through a hole in the fence.
a bullet hole
the hole in the ozone layer
a rabbit/mouse, etc. hole
I am not going to bring up my child in this hole.
The ball rolled into the hole and she had won.
an eighteen-hole golf course
He liked to play a few holes after work.
She won the first hole.
He was found not guilty because of holes in the prosecution case.
I don't believe what she says—her story is full of holes.
After his wife left, there was a gaping hole in his life.
Buying the new equipment left a big hole in the company's finances.
He had got himself into a hole and it was going to be difficult to get out of it.
We start the current fiscal year $30 million in the hole.
School fees can make a big hole in your savings.
It was easy to pick holes in his arguments.
She holed a 25 foot putt.
She holed out from 25 feet.
hole-in-the-wall cash machines/restaurants
a hole-and-corner wedding
the school/summer/Christmas, etc. holidays
I'm afraid Mr Walsh is away on holiday this week.
The package includes 20 days' paid holiday a year.
holiday pay
a holiday job (= done by students during the school holidays)
a camping/skiing/walking, etc. holiday
a family holiday
a foreign holiday
a holiday cottage/home/resort
the holiday industry
Where are you going for your holidays this year?
They met while on holiday in Greece.
We went on holiday together last summer.
a national holiday
Today is a holiday in Wales.
Happy Holidays!
I get four weeks' holiday/vacation a year.
He's on holiday/vacation this week.
I like to take my holiday/vacation in the winter.
the summer holidays/vacation
The school will be closed Monday because it's a holiday.
She was holidaying with her family in Ireland.
the Holy Bible/Scriptures
holy ground
a holy war (= one fought to defend the beliefs of a particular religion)
the holy city of Mecca
Islam's holiest shrine
a holy life/man
Holy cow! What was that?
I can't stand his holier-than-thou attitude.
His Holiness Pope Francis
a holistic approach to life
holistic medicine
Don't holler at me!
'Look out!' I hollered.
He hollered something I couldn't understand.
a sprig of holly
a hollow ball/centre/tube
The tree trunk was hollow inside.
Her stomach felt hollow with fear.
hollow eyes/cheeks
hollow-eyed from lack of sleep
a hollow groan
hollow promises/threats
a hollow laugh
Their appeals for an end to the violence had a hollow ring.
to win a hollow victory
to laugh hollowly
the hollowness of the victory
muddy hollows
The village lay secluded in a hollow of the hills (= a small valley).
She noticed the slight hollows under his cheekbones.
The squirrel disappeared into a hollow at the base of the tree.
Hollow out the cake and fill it with cream.
The cave has been hollowed out of the mountainside.
The film refuses to sell out and provide a Hollywood ending.
a nuclear holocaust
a holographic picture
to take holy orders (= to become a priest)
(figurative) You shouldn't take what he says as Holy Writ (= accept that it is true without questioning it).
elections to Holyrood
The kings of France paid homage to no one.
He describes his book as 'a homage to my father'.
They stood in silent homage around the grave.
Their quarterback is one tough hombre.
We are not far from my home now.
Old people prefer to stay in their own homes.
She leaves home at 7 every day.
the family home
While travelling she missed the comforts of home.
He left home (= left his parents and began an independent life) at sixteen.
Nowadays a lot of people work from home.
I'll call you from home later.
(figurative) We haven't found a home for all our books yet (= a place where they can be kept).
stray dogs needing new homes
a holiday/summer home
A lot of new homes are being built on the edge of town.
Private home ownership is increasing faster than ever.
They applied for a home improvement loan.
I often think about my friends back home.
Jane left England and made Greece her home.
Jamaica is home to over two million people.
She came from a violent home.
He had always wanted a real home with a wife and children.
a children's home
an old people's home
a retirement home
a home for the mentally ill
She has lived in a home since she was six.
a dogs'/cats' home
This region is the home of many species of wild flower.
The tiger's home is in the jungle.
The Rockies are home to bears and mountain lions.
New Orleans, the home of jazz
Greece, the home of democracy
They got married and set up home together in Hull.
Who's she when she's at home? (= I don't know her)
home life (= with your family)
a person's home address/town
We offer customers a free home delivery service.
home movies
home cooking
a home computer
products for the home market
home news/affairs
a home match/win
the home team
Rangers were playing in front of their home crowd.
Come on, it's time to go home.
What time did you get home last night?
The trip has been exhausting and I'll be glad to be home.
After a month, they went back home to America.
It was a lovely day so I walked home.
Anna will drive me home after work.
Hopefully the doctors will allow her home tomorrow.
(NAmE) I like to stay home in the evenings.
She leaned on the door and pushed the bolt home.
He drove the ball home (= scored a goal) from 15 metres.
The torpedo struck home on the hull of the ship.
to press home an attack/an argument/a point
Simon saw she was hesitating and pressed home his advantage.
Their horse romped home in the 2 o'clock race.
The Dutch team romped to a 5–1 victory over Celtic.
The missile homed in on the target.
I began to feel I was really homing in on the answer.
The security software he uses is home brew.
I'd rather meet him here on my own home ground.
They've spent a lot of money on home improvements.
home-improvement products
It's time you told him a few home truths.
home-grown tomatoes
The team has a wealth of home-grown talent.
Many refugees have been forced to flee their homeland.
the Transkei homeland
the Department of Homeland Security
The scheme has been set up to help homeless people.
helping the homeless
The hotel has a lovely homely feel to it.
homely cooking
His landlady was a kind, homely woman.
a homely child
homeopathic medicines/remedies/treatments
He hit a homer.
The company has adopted homeshoring in order to avoid the cost of renting offices.
a homeshoring firm
I felt homesick for Scotland.
The trip includes a homestay in a traditional village.
Live with an American family in homestay and learn the language and customs.
the homeward journey
Commuters were heading homeward at the end of the day.
We drove homewards in silence.
We were homeward bound at last.
I still haven't done my geography homework.
How much homework do you get?
I have to write up the notes for homework.
You could tell that he had really done his homework (= found out all he needed to know).
The hotel had a nice, homey atmosphere.
a homicidal maniac
He had clear homicidal tendencies.
She delivered a homily on the virtues of family life.
Many birds have a remarkable homing instinct.
a homing device
a homogeneous group/mixture/population
The seal's flipper is homologous with the human arm.
'Bear' and 'bare' are homophonous.
a practising homosexual
a homosexual act/relationship
Hon Treasurer: D Shrimpton
the Hon Member for Bolsover
Claude is the studio's head honcho.
She honed her debating skills at college.
It was a finely honed piece of writing.
His body was honed to perfection.
an honest man/woman
an honest answer
Are you being completely honest about your feelings?
Give me your honest opinion.
To be honest (= what I really think is), it was one of the worst books I've ever read.
Let's be honest, she's only interested in Mike because of his money.
She's got an honest face.
He hasn't done an honest day's work in his life.
It's quite a struggle to make an honest living.
I didn't mean it, honest!
honest-to-goodness country food
I can't believe he got that money honestly.
I didn't tell anyone, honestly!
I honestly can't remember a thing about last night.
You can't honestly expect me to believe that!
Honestly! Whatever will they think of next?
She answered all my questions with her usual honesty.
His honesty is not in question.
The book isn't, in all honesty, as good as I expected.
Have you seen my keys, honey?
He can be a real honey when he wants to be.
As a handsome, honey-tongued politician, he convinced the nation that going to war was a good idea.
a honey-tongued lie
His beautiful verses contain echoes of Shakespeare's honey-tongued romantic poetry.
We went to Venice for our honeymoon.
They're on their honeymoon.
The honeymoon period for the government is now over.
honking taxis
Why did he honk at me?
People honked their horns as they drove past.
an honorary doctorate/degree
the honorary president
The post of treasurer is a purely honorary position.
She was treated as an honorary man.
The author is a Pulitzer Prize honoree.
an honorific title
She was awarded a degree honoris causa.
the guest of honour (= the most important one)
the seat/place of honour (= given to the most important guest)
They stood in silence as a mark of honour to her.
a man of honour
Proving his innocence has become a matter of honour.
upholding the honour of your country
The family honour is at stake.
She is an honour to the profession.
the New Year's Honours list (= in Britain, a list of awards and titles given on January 1 each year)
to win the highest honour
He was buried with full military honours (= with a special military service as a sign of respect).
an honours degree/course
a First Class Honours degree
(NAmE) I took an honors class in English.
No more questions, Your Honour.
a ceremony in honour of those killed in the explosion
A banquet was held in her honour.
I swear on my honour that I knew nothing about this.
You're on your honour not to go into my room.
The President honoured us with a personal visit.
our honoured guests
(ironic) I'm glad to see that you've decided to honour us with your presence!
He has been honoured with a knighthood for his scientific work.
I have every intention of honouring our contract.
to honour a cheque (= to keep an agreement to pay it)
a long and honourable career in government
They managed an honourable 2–2 draw.
With a few honourable exceptions, the staff were found to be incompetent.
an honourable man
an honourable compromise
They urged her to do the honourable thing and resign.
He received an honourable discharge from the army.
If my Honourable Friend would give me a chance to answer,…
the Honorable Alan Simpson, US senator
to behave honourably
The author is a Pulitzer Prize honouree.
Tim Smith BA (Hons)
a jacket with a detachable hood
We drove all the way with the hood down.
a lens hood
an extractor hood (= one that removes cooking smells from a kitchen)
a hooded jacket
A hooded figure waited in the doorway.
She had been hoodwinked into buying a worthless necklace.
We hoofed it all the way to 42nd Street.
a picture/curtain/coat hook
a fish hook
Hang your towel on the hook.
a left hook to the jaw
The images are used as a hook to get children interested in science.
What I said was not true, but he fell for it (= believed it) hook, line and sinker.
The phone has been ringing off the hook with offers of help.
We hooked the trailer to the back of the car.
a dress that hooks at the back
He hooked his foot under the stool and dragged it over.
Her thumbs were hooked into the pockets of her jeans.
Suddenly an arm hooked around my neck.
It was the biggest pike I ever hooked.
(figurative) She had managed to hook a wealthy husband.
She was then hooked up to an IV drip.
Check that the computer is hooked up to the printer.
A large proportion of the nation's households are hooked up to the Internet.
Can you hook me up with someone with a car?
a satellite hook-up between the major European networks
a hooked nose/beak/finger
English football hooligans
a barrel bound with iron hoops
hoop earrings (= in the shape of a hoop )
Let's shoot some hoops.
croquet hoops
Grow lettuces under plastic stretched over wire hoops.
hooped earrings
He had the audience hooting with laughter.
Some people hooted in disgust.
hooting cars
Why did he hoot at me?
Passing motorists hooted their horns.
The train hooted a warning (= the driver sounded the horn to warn people).
The suggestion was greeted by hoots of laughter.
You ought to meet her—she's a hoot!
to hoover the carpet
to hoover up all the dust
The US and Canada usually hoover up most of the gold medals.
It's your turn to do the hoovering.
I couldn't put my weight on my ankle and had to hop everywhere.
kids hopping over puddles
A robin was hopping around on the path.
Hop in, I'll drive you home.
to hop into/out of bed
I hopped on the next train.
We hopped over to Paris for the weekend.
I like to hop from channel to channel when I watch TV.
Go on, hop it!
He crossed the hall with a hop, skip and a jump.
We are hoping for good weather on Sunday.
All we can do now is wait and hope.
'Do you think it will rain?' ' I hope not.'
'Will you be back before dark?' ' I hope so, yes.'
I hope (that) you're okay.
Let's hope we can find a parking space.
It is hoped that over £10 000 will be raised.
She is hoping to win the gold medal.
We hope to arrive around two.
The improvement that had been hoped for never came.
The hoped-for improvement never came.
'Nobody blames you.' 'I should hope not!'
There is now hope of a cure.
Hopes for the missing men are fading.
There is little hope that they will be found alive.
They have given up hope of finding any more survivors.
She has high hopes of winning (= is very confident about it).
The future is not without hope.
Don't raise your hopes too high, or you may be disappointed.
I'll do what I can, but don't get your hopes up.
There is still a glimmer of hope.
The situation is not good but we live in hope that it will improve.
She told me all her hopes, dreams and fears.
They have high hopes for their children.
He turned to her in despair and said, 'You're my last hope.'
The operation was Kelly's only hope of survival.
I called early in the hope of catching her before she went to work.
He asked her again in the vain hope that he could persuade her to come (= it was impossible).
She doesn't have a hope of winning.
The new policy did not bring the hoped-for economic recovery.
I feel hopeful that we'll find a suitable house very soon.
He is not very hopeful about the outcome of the interview.
(BrE) She is hopeful of returning to work soon.
a hopeful smile
The latest trade figures are a hopeful sign.
The future did not seem very hopeful.
50 young hopefuls are trying for a place in the England team.
Hopefully, we'll arrive before dark.
'Are you free tonight?' she asked hopefully.
a hopeless situation
It's hopeless trying to convince her.
Most of the students are making good progress, but Michael is a hopeless case.
He felt that his life was a hopeless mess.
The buses are absolutely hopeless these days!
a hopeless driver
I'm hopeless at science.
She felt lonely and hopeless.
hopelessly outnumbered
They were hopelessly lost.
to be hopelessly in love
'I'll never manage it,' he said hopelessly.
a sense/feeling of hopelessness
The clubs in town are really hopping.
There are always hordes of tourists here in the summer.
Football fans turned up in hordes.
The sun sank below the horizon.
A ship appeared on the horizon.
She wanted to travel to broaden her horizons.
The company needs new horizons now.
There's trouble looming on the horizon.
horizontal lines
Cut the cake in half horizontally and spread jam on one half.
He shifted his position from the horizontal.
growth hormones
a hormone imbalance
Oestrogen is a female sex hormone.
the hormonal changes occurring during pregnancy
a hunting horn
a horn concerto
to honk your car horn
(BrE) to sound/toot your horn
The company has locked horns with the unions over proposed pay cuts.
I'm sure she doesn't want us horning in on her business.
to feel horny
to look horny
the bird's horny beak
horny hands
horrendous injuries
horrendous traffic
horrendously expensive
horrible weather/children/shoes
The coffee tasted horrible.
I've got a horrible feeling she lied to us.
a horrible crime/nightmare
a horrible man
My sister was being horrible to me all day.
What a horrible thing to say!
It was horribly painful.
The experiment went horribly wrong.
a horrid child
a horrid smell
Don't be so horrid to your brother.
a horrific murder/accident/attack, etc.
Her injuries were horrific.
We had a horrific trip.
The whole country was horrified by the killings.
It horrified her to think that he had killed someone.
It horrified her that he had actually killed someone.
He was horrified when he discovered the conditions in which they lived.
She gazed at him in horrified disbelief.
a horrifying sight/experience/story
It's horrifying to see such poverty.
People watched in horror as the plane crashed to the ground.
With a look of horror, he asked if the doctor thought he had cancer.
The thought of being left alone filled her with horror.
She recoiled in horror at the sight of an enormous spider.
To his horror, he could feel himself starting to cry (= it upset him very much).
Her eyes were wide with horror.
a horror of deep water
Most people have a horror of speaking in public.
The full horror of the accident was beginning to become clear.
In his dreams he relives the horror of the attack.
the horrors of war
In this section you'll find horror and science fiction.
a horror film/movie
Her son is a little horror.
I stood up to speak and—horror of horrors—realized I had left my notes behind.
horror stories about visits to the dentist
He mounted his horse and rode off.
a horse and cart
He lost a lot of money on the horses (= by gambling on races).
a soldier on horseback
a horseback tour
to ride horseback
a good horseman
a powerful car with a 170 horsepower engine
roast beef and horseradish
a horseshoe bend in the river
a good horsewoman
She had a long, horsey face.
a college of agriculture and horticulture
a horticultural show
a garden hose
a length of hose
doublet and hose
Firemen hosed the burning car.
the hosiery department
an AIDS hospice
The local people are very hospitable to strangers.
a hospitable climate
(BrE) He had to go to hospital for treatment.
(NAmE) He had to go to the hospital for treatment.
to be admitted to (the) hospital
to be discharged from (the) hospital
The injured were rushed to (the) hospital in an ambulance.
He died in (the) hospital.
I'm going to the hospital to visit my brother.
a psychiatric/mental hospital
hospital doctors/nurses/staff
There is an urgent need for more hospital beds.
I had to go to hospital.
She spent two weeks in hospital.
I had to go to the hospital.
She spent two weeks in the hospital.
a long period of hospitalization
Thank you for your kind hospitality.
We were entertained in the company's hospitality suite.
the hospitality industry (= hotels, restaurants, etc.)
Three children were taken hostage during the bank robbery.
He was held hostage for almost a year.
The government is negotiating the release of the hostages.
a hostel for the homeless
Mary was always the perfect hostess.
The speaker got a hostile reception from the audience.
She was openly hostile towards her parents.
hostile to the idea of change
hostile conditions for plants to grow in
hostile territory
a hostile takeover bid
feelings of hostility towards people from other backgrounds
There was open hostility between the two schools.
public hostility to nuclear power
the start/outbreak of hostilities between the two sides
a cessation of hostilities (= an end to fighting)
Do you like this hot weather?
It's hot today, isn't it?
It was hot and getting hotter.
It was the hottest July on record.
a hot dry summer
Be careful—the plates are hot.
All rooms have hot and cold water.
a hot bath
a hot meal (= one that has been cooked)
I couldn't live in a hot country (= one which has high average temperatures).
Cook in a very hot oven.
Eat it while it's hot.
I touched his forehead. He felt hot and feverish.
Is anyone too hot?
I feel hot.
Her cheeks were hot with embarrassment.
London was hot and dusty.
a long hot journey
hot spicy food
You can make a curry hotter simply by adding chillies.
hot mustard
Today we enter the hottest phase of the election campaign.
The environment has become a very hot issue.
Competition is getting hotter day by day.
When things got too hot most journalists left the area.
They're making life hot for her.
This is one of the hottest clubs in town.
They are one of this year's hot new bands.
The couple are Hollywood's hottest property.
I've got some hot gossip for you!
a story that is hot off the press (= has just appeared in the newspapers)
She seems to be the hot favourite for the job.
Do you have any hot tips for today's race?
Don't ask me—I'm not too hot on British history.
You were as hot for me as I was for you.
I've got a hot date tonight.
Some of the nude scenes were regarded as too hot for Broadway.
The report was highly critical of senior members of the Cabinet and was considered too hot to publish.
They're very hot on punctuality at work.
I'd never have touched those CDs if I'd known they were hot.
You're getting hot!
He turned and fled with Peter hot on his heels.
Further successes came hot on the heels of her first best-selling novel.
She sped away in her car with journalists in hot pursuit.
Her spelling isn't too hot.
'How are you today?' 'Not so hot, I'm afraid.'
Things are really hotting up in the election campaign.
Race has always been a hot button in this country's history.
the hot-button issue of nuclear waste disposal
Two coffees and a hot chocolate, please.
He's a real hot dog.
She's pretty hot stuff.
She's really hot stuff at tennis.
These new proposals are proving to be hot stuff.
The area was a hotbed of crime.
We stayed at/in a hotel.
hotel rooms/guests
a two-star/five-star, etc. hotel
a luxury hotel
a friendly, family-run hotel
He had just arrived hotfoot from London.
When the police arrived, they hotfooted it out of there.
hothouse flowers
a hotly debated topic
Recent reports in the press have been hotly denied.
'Nonsense!' he said hotly.
The results were hotly disputed.
hotly contested elections
She ran out of the shop, hotly pursued by the store detective.
a hotshot lawyer
They were hounded day and night by the press.
It will take about an hour to get there.
The interview lasted half an hour.
It was a three-hour exam.
I waited for an hour and then I left.
He'll be back in an hour.
We're paid by the hour.
The rate of pay is £8.50 an hour.
Top speed is 120 miles per hour.
York was within an hour's drive.
Chicago is two hours away (= it takes two hours to get there).
We're four hours ahead of New York (= referring to the time difference).
We hope to be there within the hour (= in less than an hour).
I use the Internet at work, during my lunch hour.
Opening hours are from 10 to 6 each day.
Most people in this kind of job tend to work long hours.
What are your office hours?
a hospital's visiting hours
Britain's licensing hours (= when pubs are allowed to open) used to be very restricted.
This is the only place to get a drink after hours (= after the normal closing time for pubs).
Clients can now contact us by email out of hours (= when the office is closed).
It took hours getting there.
I've been waiting for hours.
'How long did it last?' 'Oh, hours and hours.'
You can't turn him away at this hour of the night.
This was often thought of as the country's finest hour.
She thought her last hour had come.
Don't desert me in my hour of need.
There's a bus every hour on the hour.
The clock struck the hour.
The first missile was launched at 2300 hours (= at 11 p.m.).
We killed time playing cards.
an hourly bus service
Trains leave at hourly intervals.
an hourly rate of $30 an hour
Reapply sunscreen hourly and after swimming.
Dressings are changed four hourly (= every four hours) to help prevent infection.
He went into the house.
a two-bedroom house
Let's have the party at my house.
house prices
What time do you leave the house in the morning (= to go to work)?
(BrE) We're moving house (= leaving our house and going to live in a different one).
Be quiet or you'll wake the whole house!
an opera house
a henhouse
Their offices are on the second floor of Chester House.
a fashion/banking/publishing, etc. house
a religious house (= a convent or a monastery )
I work in house (= in the offices of the company that I work for, not at home).
a steakhouse
a coffee house
a bottle of house wine (= the cheapest wine available in a particular restaurant, sometimes not listed by name)
Legislation requires approval by both houses of parliament.
I urge the house to vote against the motion.
playing to a full/packed/empty house (= to a large/small audience)
The spotlight faded and the house lights came up.
the House of Windsor (= the British royal family)
They set up house together in a small flat in Brighton.
The government is committed to housing the refugees.
The gallery houses 2 000 works of modern art.
The museum is housed in the Old Court House.
to be under house arrest
She was placed under house arrest.
a house-to-house collection/search
The police are making house-to-house enquiries.
He grew up in a houseful of women.
They had a houseful so we didn't stay.
Most households now own at least one car.
low-income/one-parent, etc. households
the head of the household
household bills/chores/goods (= connected with looking after a house and the people living in it)
She became a household name in the 1960s.
Call housekeeping and ask them to bring us some clean towels.
Most large companies now use computers for accounting and housekeeping operations.
to do the housework
public/private housing
poor housing conditions
the housing shortage
the housing market (= the activity of buying and selling houses, etc.)
the housing department
the council's housing policy
a car's rear axle housing
They live on a housing estate.
A hawk hovered over the hill.
He hovered nervously in the doorway.
Temperatures hovered around freezing.
He hovered on the edge of consciousness.
A smile hovered on her lips.
How does it work?
He did not know how he ought to behave.
I'll show you how to load the software.
'Her behaviour was very odd.' ' How so? '
It's funny how (= that) people always remember him.
Do you remember how (= that) the kids always loved going there?
How ever did you get here so quickly?
How are you?
How are you feeling now?
How was your trip?
How did they play?
How often do you go swimming?
I didn't know how much to bring.
How much are those earrings (= What do they cost)?
How many people were there?
How old is she?
How kind of you to help!
How he wished he had been there!
I'll dress how I like in my own house!
I'm not going. How about you?
How about a break?
How about going for a meal?
(especially NAmE) How about we go for a meal?
Ben! How could you? After all they've done for us!
Ugh! How can you eat that stuff?
'I left work early today.' 'How's that (= Why)?'
I'll tuck your sheets in for you. How's that? Comfortable?
Two o'clock on the dot! How's that for punctuality!
What do I think about it? How long have you got?
'How long will it take?' 'How long's a piece of string?'
How would you like it if someone called you a liar?
how-to books on computing
Visit our downloads page for free how-tos and tutorials.
What in the world did they think they were doing?
Howdy, partner.
He wanted to take no risks, however small.
She has the window open, however cold it is outside.
However carefully I explained, she still didn't understand.
However you look at it, it's going to cost a lot.
He was feeling bad. He went to work, however, and tried to concentrate.
We thought the figures were correct. However, we have now discovered some errors.
to howl in pain
We howled with laughter.
The baby was howling (= crying loudly) all the time I was there.
The wind was howling around the house.
The crowd howled its displeasure.
to let out a howl of anguish
The suggestion was greeted with howls of laughter.
They listened to the howl of the wind through the trees.
a howling gale/storm/wind
a howling success
She flew into a howling rage.
Howzit Mandla, how's it going?
Please say howzit to Nicki for me.
See you back at HQ.
police HQ
Cover and chill for 1 hr.
HRH Prince Harry
Look at that man over there.
How much are those apples at the back?
I was living with my parents at that time.
That incident changed their lives.
Have you forgotten about that money I lent you last week?
That dress of hers is too short.
Who's that?
That's Peter over there.
Hello. Is that Jo?
That's a nice dress.
Those look riper than these.
What can I do about that?
Do you remember when we went to Norway? That was a good trip.
That's exactly what I think.
Those present were in favour of change.
There are those who say (= some people say) she should not have got the job.
Salaries are higher here than those in my country.
Where's the letter that came yesterday?
Who was it that won the US Open?
The watch (that) you gave me keeps perfect time.
The people (that) I spoke to were very helpful.
It's the best novel (that) I've ever read.
We moved here the year (that) my mother died.
He's a local government administrator, that is to say a civil servant.
You'll find her very helpful—if she's not too busy, that is.
Some poems are mnemonics, i.e. they are designed to help you remember something.
Some poems are mnemonics, that is to say, they are designed to help you remember something.
Mnemonic poems, that is poems designed to help you remember something, are an excellent way to learn lists.
A limerick's rhyme scheme is A–A–B–B–A. In other words, the first, second, and fifth lines all rhyme with one another, while the third and fourth lines have their own rhyme.
In this exercise the reader is encouraged to work out the meaning, or rather the range of meanings, of the poem.
This is a poem about death, or, more precisely, dying.
He says his poems deal with 'the big issues', by which he means love, loss, grief and death.
No, the other one… that's it.
That's it, carry on!
That's it, the fire's out now.
That's it for now, but if I get any news I'll let you know.
A week to go, and that's it!
That's it, I've had enough!
So that's it—the fuse had gone.
You don't love me any more, is that it?
Well I'm not going, and that's that.
She said (that) the story was true.
It's possible (that) he has not received the letter.
The fact (that) he's older than me is not relevant.
She was so tired (that) she couldn't think straight.
Oh that I could see him again!
I can't walk that far (= as far as that).
It's about that long.
It isn't all that cold.
There aren't that many people here.
I was that scared I didn't know what to do.
There were three questions. The first two were relatively easy but the third one was hard.
There was an accident here yesterday. A car hit a tree and the driver was killed.
The heat was getting to be too much for me.
The nights are getting longer.
the Mona Lisa
the Nile
the Queen
What's the matter?
The phone rang.
I patted her on the back.
How's the (= your) baby?
the house at the end of the street
The people I met there were very friendly.
It was the best day of my life.
You're the third person to ask me that.
Friday the thirteenth
He taught himself to play the violin.
The dolphin is an intelligent animal.
They placed the African elephant on their endangered list.
I heard it on the radio.
I'm usually out during the day.
With him, you should always expect the unexpected.
the unemployed
the French
Don't forget to invite the Jordans.
I wanted it but I didn't have the money.
My car does forty miles to the gallon.
You get paid by the hour.
Why not have the dish of the day?
She's flavour of the month with him.
Sheryl Crow? Not ˈthe Sheryl Crow?
At that time London was ˈthe place to be.
The more she thought about it, the more depressed she became.
The less said about the whole thing, the happier I'll be.
'Where are John and Liz?' 'They went for a walk.'
They (= the things you are carrying) go on the bottom shelf.
If anyone arrives late they'll have to wait outside.
The rest, as they say, is history.
They cut my water off.
They now say that red wine is good for you.
You should be able to find information about courses on the institution's website. HTH
I thought I heard a scream.
I didn't think you liked sports.
Am I right in thinking that you used to live here?
I think this is their house, but I'm not sure.
He ought to resign, I think.
We'll need about 20 chairs, I should think.
It was once thought that the sun travelled around the earth.
What did you think about the idea?
Well, I like it. What do you think?
'Will we make it in time?' 'I think so.'
'Is he any good?' 'I don't think so.'
I think it highly unlikely that I'll get the job.
She thought him kind and generous.
He's thought to be one of the richest men in Europe.
Are animals able to think?
Let me think (= give me time before I answer).
I can't tell you now—I'll have to think about it.
She had thought very deeply about this problem.
All he ever thinks about is money.
I'm sorry, I wasn't thinking (= said when you have upset or offended sb accidentally).
He was trying to think what to do.
You're very quiet. What are you thinking?
I was just thinking what a long way it is.
'I must be crazy,' she thought.
Just think how nice it would be to see them again.
I can't think (that) he would be so stupid.
Just think —we'll be lying on the beach this time tomorrow.
If I'm late home, my mother always thinks the worst.
Try to think yourself into the role.
I never thought (that) I'd see her again.
The job took longer than we thought.
You'd think she'd have been grateful for my help (= but she wasn't).
(formal) Who would have thought to find you here?
Let's think positive.
You need to think big (= aim to achieve a lot).
If you want to make money, you've got to think money.
What do you think you're doing?
I thought we could go out tonight.
Twenty guests are enough, I would have thought.
Do you think you could open the window?
'You've made a mistake.' 'I don't think so.'
I think I'll go for a swim.
I'm thinking in terms of about 70 guests at the wedding.
I didn't think (= it did not occur to me) to tell her.
I can't think where I put the keys.
Me? Fail? I don't think so.
It was a difficult situation, when you think about it.
'He said he'd forgotten.' 'I thought as much.'
Rosie was about to protest but thought better of it.
She thinks nothing of walking thirty miles a day.
You should think twice about employing someone you've never met.
He thinks the world of his daughter.
I don't think much of her idea.
To think that my mother wrote all those books and I never knew!
Don't speak ill of the dead.
Now let me see—where did he say he lived?
I like to think I'm broad-minded.
Don't you ever think about other people?
She's thinking of changing her job.
I keep thinking back to the day I arrived here.
When I said that I wasn't thinking of anyone in particular.
Can anybody think of a way to raise money?
Have you thought of a name for the baby yet?
I can think of at least three occasions when he arrived late.
I can't think of her name at the moment.
I think of this place as my home.
She is thought of as a possible director.
Just think of the expense!
I couldn't think of letting you take the blame (= I would not allow that to happen).
It's a very well thought out plan.
He'd like more time to think things over.
Can't you think up a better excuse than that?
Can you pass me that thing over there?
She's very fond of sweet things (= sweet foods).
He's just bought one of those exercise things.
Turn that thing off while I'm talking to you!
Don't treat her like that—she's a person, not a thing!
He's good at making things with his hands.
She took no interest in the people and things around her.
Bring your swimming things with you.
I'll just clear away the breakfast things.
Put your things (= coat, etc.) on and let's go.
I haven't got a thing to wear!
There wasn't a thing we could do to help.
Ignore what he said—it doesn't mean a thing.
There are a lot of things she doesn't know about me.
There's another thing I'd like to ask you.
A terrible thing happened last night.
He found the whole thing (= the situation) very boring.
I've got loads of things to do today.
The main thing to remember is to switch off the burglar alarm.
I like camping, climbing and that sort of thing.
She said the first thing that came into her head.
'Why did you tell her our secret?' 'I did no such thing!'
Let's forget the whole thing (= everything).
That was the most puzzling aspect of the situation.
Curiosity is an essential attribute for a journalist.
This bird has several interesting characteristics.
I want to know every detail of what happened.
Noise is a familiar feature of city life.
She has campaigned on many controversial issues.
We have several important matters to deal with at this meeting.
That's a very interesting point you made.
The book covers a number of subjects.
We discussed a wide range of topics.
Her generosity is one of her most attractive traits.
Having your own computer is very useful.
I have something important to tell you.
Do you want anything else?
I have so much to tell you.
She knows a lot about basketball.
Things haven't gone entirely to plan.
(informal) Hi, Jane! How are things?
As things stand at present, he seems certain to win.
All things considered (= considering all the difficulties or problems), she's done very well.
Why do you make things so difficult for yourself?
You need something to cheer you up—I know just the thing!
to say the right/wrong thing
The best thing to do is to apologize.
She loves all things Japanese.
All living things are composed of cells.
You silly thing!
You must be starving, you poor things.
The cat's very ill, poor old thing.
You wouldn't know what it means—it's a girl thing.
She's been married five times, so she knows a thing or two about men!
It wouldn't be quite the thing to turn up in running gear.
He offered me a ride home one night, and, well, one thing led to another and now we're married!
I'm sorry my assignment isn't finished. The thing is, I've had a lot of other work this week.
The thing with Karl is, he's always late.
She really didn't want to be involved in the whole family thing.
In the nature of things, young people often rebel against their parents.
I'd love to come—the only thing is I might be late.
He's been overdoing things recently.
I overdid it in the gym and hurt my back.
You didn't get caught last time, but don't push your luck!
Are you sure it's the real thing (= love), not just infatuation?
My personal problems are not really important in the overall scheme of things.
I don't think marriage figures in his scheme of things.
'Are you coming?' 'Sure thing.'
Can you work it so that we get free tickets?
How long have you been living in this country?
Well, make up your mind. Which do you want? This one or that one?
I think you'll find these more comfortable than those.
Is this your bag?
There was a court case resulting from this incident.
The boy was afraid and the dog had sensed this.
What's this I hear about you getting married?
Hello, this is Maria Diaz (= on the telephone).
Jo, this is Kate (= when you are introducing them).
This is the captain speaking.
Listen to this.
Do it like this (= in the way I am showing you).
this week/month/year
I saw her this morning (= today in the morning).
Do you want me to come this Tuesday (= Tuesday of this week) or next Tuesday?
Do it this minute (= now).
He never comes to see me these days (= now, as compared with the past).
These new friends of hers are supposed to be very rich.
There was this strange man sitting next to me on the plane.
I've been getting these pains in my chest.
'What did you talk about?' 'Oh, this and that.'
It's about this high (= as high as I am showing you with my hands).
I didn't think we'd get this far.
the commercial hub of the city
to be at the hub of things (= where things happen and important decisions are made)
a hub airport (= a large important one where people often change from one plane to another)
It was difficult to hear what he was saying over the hubbub.
the hubbub of city life
We huddled together for warmth.
They all huddled around the fire.
I huddled under a blanket on the floor.
People were huddled together around the fire.
huddled figures in shop doorways
We found him huddled on the floor.
People stood around in huddles.
The track led them to a huddle of outbuildings.
His face took on an unhealthy whitish hue.
Her paintings capture the subtle hues of the countryside in autumn.
supporters of every political hue
'Well, nobody asked you,' she huffed irritably.
Jack was huffing and puffing to keep up with her.
After much huffing and puffing, she finally agreed to help.
She went off in a huff.
They hugged each other.
She hugged him tightly.
They put their arms around each other and hugged.
She sat in the chair, hugging her knees.
He hugged the hot-water bottle to his chest.
The track hugs the coast for a mile.
figure-hugging jeans
She gave her mother a big hug.
He stopped to receive hugs and kisses from the fans.
a huge crowd
He gazed up at her with huge brown eyes.
huge debts
huge amounts of data
The sums of money involved are potentially huge.
The party was a huge success.
This is going to be a huge problem for us.
I think this band is going to be huge.
hugely entertaining/important/popular/successful
They intended to invest hugely in new technology.
He turned around, grinning hugely.
So you won't be coming tonight, huh?
Let's get out of here, huh?
Huh! Is that all you've done?
'Are you feeling OK?' 'Huh?'
the hulk of a wrecked ship
a great hulk of a man
a hulking figure crouching in the darkness
I don't want that hulking great computer in my office.
a wooden/steel hull
They climbed onto the upturned hull and waited to be rescued.
She was humming softly to herself.
What's that tune you're humming?
The computers were humming away.
The streets were beginning to hum with life.
the hum of bees/traffic/voices
The room filled with the hum of conversation.
the human body/brain
human anatomy/activity/behaviour/experience
a terrible loss of human life
Contact with other people is a basic human need.
This food is not fit for human consumption.
human geography (= the study of the way different people live around the world)
The hostages were used as a human shield (= a person or group of people that is forced to stay in a particular place where they would be hurt or killed if their country attacked it).
Firefighters formed a human chain (= a line of people) to carry the children to safety.
Human remains (= the body of a dead person) were found inside the house.
human weaknesses/failings
We must allow for human error.
It's only human to want the best for your children.
He's really very human when you get to know him.
The public is always attracted to politicians who have the human touch (= the ability to make ordinary people feel relaxed when they meet them).
He is the human face of party politics.
This was science with a human face.
Dogs can hear much better than humans.
That is no way to treat another human being.
Her kindness has restored my faith in human nature (= the belief that people are good).
It's only human nature to be worried about change.
the human resources director
The country has a poor record on human rights.
to campaign for human rights
human rights abuses/violations
a caring and humane society
the humane treatment of refugees
the humane killing of animals
to treat sb humanely
meat that has been humanely produced
The dog was humanely destroyed.
These measures are intended to humanize the prison system.
humanistic ideals
to provide humanitarian aid to the war zone
humanitarian issues
a humanitarian organization
They are calling for the release of the hostages on humanitarian grounds.
The expulsion of thousands of people represents a humanitarian catastrophe of enormous proportions.
crimes against humanity
The story was used to emphasize the humanity of Jesus.
united by a sense of common humanity
The judge was praised for his courage and humanity.
The doctors did all that was humanly possible.
He couldn't humanly refuse to help her.
Be humble enough to learn from your mistakes.
my humble tribute to this great man
In my humble opinion, you were in the wrong.
My humble apologies. I did not understand.
a man of humble birth/origins
a humble occupation
the daughter of a humble shopkeeper
a humble farmhouse
The company has worked its way up from humble beginnings to become the market leader.
I would humbly suggest that there is something wrong here.
'Sorry,' she said humbly.
He was humbled by her generosity.
a humbling experience
The world champion was humbled last night in three rounds.
political humbug
It turned into a real humdinger of a game.
a humdrum existence/job/life
These ferns will grow best in a humid atmosphere.
The island is hot and humid in the summer.
high/low humidity
70% humidity
These plants need heat and humidity to grow well.
The humidity was becoming unbearable.
I didn't want to humiliate her in front of her colleagues.
I've never felt so humiliated.
The party was humiliated in the recent elections.
a humiliating defeat
She suffered the humiliation of being criticized in public.
Her first defeat was an early lesson in humility.
an act of genuine humility
He gave a humorous account of their trip to Spain.
He had a wide mouth and humorous grey eyes.
The poem humorously describes local characters and traditions.
a story full of gentle humour
She ignored his feeble attempt at humour.
They failed to see the humour of the situation.
I can't stand people with no sense of humour.
She smiled with a rare flash of humour.
She has her very own brand of humour.
The film is only funny if you appreciate French humour (= things that cause French people to laugh).
to be in the best of humours
The meeting dissolved in ill humour.
to be out of humour (= in a bad mood)
She thought it best to humour him rather than get into an argument.
the dark hump of the mountain in the distance
(BrE) a road/speed/traffic hump (= a hump on a road that forces traffic to drive more slowly)
I've been humping furniture around all day.
a humped back
He was tall and broad with humped shoulders.
She leaned forward, hunching over the desk.
He hunched his shoulders and thrust his hands deep into his pockets.
a hunched figure
He sat hunched over his breakfast.
It seemed that the doctor's hunch had been right.
I had a hunch (that) you'd be back.
to follow/back your hunches
One hundred (of the children) have already been placed with foster families.
There were just a hundred of them there.
This vase is worth several hundred dollars.
She must be over a hundred (= a hundred years old).
Hundreds of thousands of people are at risk.
a hundred-year lease
Four hundred (people) are expected to attend.
Two hundred (pounds) was withdrawn from the account.
hundreds of miles away
for hundreds of years
If I've said it once, I've said it a hundred times.
I have a hundred and one things to do.
(formal) Men died in their hundreds.
We're talking about a figure in the low hundreds.
the early nineteen hundreds (= written 'early 1900s')
twelve hundred hours (= 12.00, midday)
her hundredth birthday
a/one hundredth of a second
You're not still hung up on that girl?
He's too hung up about fitness.
Around fifty people die of hunger every day in the camp.
The organization works to alleviate world hunger and disease.
hunger pangs
I felt faint with hunger.
a hunger for knowledge
Nothing seemed to satisfy their hunger for truth.
to be on/go on hunger strike
I'm really hungry.
Is anyone getting hungry?
All this talk of food is making me hungry.
I have a hungry family to feed.
Thousands are going hungry because of the failure of this year's harvest.
All this gardening is hungry work.
Both parties are hungry for power.
power-hungry
The child is simply hungry for affection.
His eyes had a wild hungry look in them.
They gazed hungrily at the display of food.
He kissed her hungrily.
a hunk of bread/cheese/meat
He's a real hunk.
He hunkered down beside her.
Lions sometimes hunt alone.
Whales are still being hunted and killed in the Arctic.
I've hunted everywhere but I can't find it.
She is still hunting for a new job.
Police are hunting an escaped criminal.
Detectives are hunting for thieves who broke into a warehouse yesterday.
The hunt is on for a suitable candidate.
Hundreds have joined a police hunt for the missing teenager.
a murder hunt (= to find the person who has killed sb)
a tiger hunt
There will be a hunt on Boxing Day.
a hunt meeting
There are several different hunts in the area.
His eyes had a hunted look.
a bargain hunter
to go hunting
Since 1977 otter hunting has been illegal.
We're going house-hunting at the weekend.
How's the job-hunting going?
Crowded markets are a happy hunting ground for pickpockets.
His horse fell at the final hurdle.
to clear a hurdle (= jump over it successfully)
the 300 m hurdles
The next hurdle will be getting her parents' agreement.
He hurdled two barriers to avoid reporters.
to hurdle over a fence
He hurled a brick through the window.
Rival fans hurled abuse at each other.
He enjoys the hurly-burly of political debate.
hurricane-force winds
Hurricane Betty is now approaching the coast of Florida.
I ate a hurried breakfast and left.
I hurriedly got up and dressed.
You'll have to hurry if you want to catch that train.
The kids hurried to open their presents.
Hurry and open your present—I want to see what it is!
He picked up his bags and hurried across the courtyard.
She hurried away without saying goodbye.
I don't want to hurry you but we close in twenty minutes.
She was hurried into making an unwise choice.
Her application was hurried through.
A good meal should never be hurried.
I wish the bus would hurry up and come.
Hurry up! We're going to be late.
Hurry up with the scissors. I need them.
Can you do anything to hurry my order up?
Take your time—there's no hurry.
In my hurry to leave, I forgot my passport.
What's the hurry? The train doesn't leave for an hour.
He had to leave in a hurry.
Sorry, I haven't got time to do it now—I'm in a hurry.
Alice was in a tearing hurry as usual.
My daughter is in such a hurry to grow up.
Why are you in such a hurry to sell?
I don't mind waiting—I'm not in any particular hurry.
We were in no hurry to get back to work after the holiday.
I won't be going there again in a hurry—the food was terrible.
He hurt his back playing squash.
Stop it. You're hurting me.
My back is really hurting me today.
My shoes hurt—they're too tight.
It hurts when I bend my knee.
What really hurt was that he never answered my letter.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to hurt you.
I didn't want to hurt his feelings.
It hurt me to think that he would lie to me.
I know you're hurting and I want to help you.
Many people on low incomes will be hurt by the government's plans.
His campaign is already hurting for money.
It wouldn't hurt you to help with the housework occasionally.
None of the passengers were badly hurt.
a hurt look/expression
She was deeply hurt that she had not been invited.
Martha's hurt pride showed in her eyes.
There was hurt and real anger in her voice.
It was a hurt that would take a long time to heal.
I cannot forget the hurtful things he said.
The bad reviews of her new book were very hurtful to her.
He said, rather hurtfully, that he had better things to do than come and see me.
A runaway car came hurtling towards us.
This is my husband, Steve.
They lived together as husband and wife (= as if they were married) for years.
a husband-and-wife team
animal/crop husbandry
Hush now and try to sleep.
He claimed that the whole affair had been hushed up by the council.
There was a deathly hush in the theatre.
A hush descended over the waiting crowd.
(BrE, informal) Can we have a bit of hush? (= please be quiet)
Their wedding was very hush-hush.
A hushed courtroom listened as the boy gave evidence.
a hushed whisper
She spoke in a husky whisper.
Most candidates will be out on the hustings this week.
He grabbed her arm and hustled her out of the room.
to hustle dope
They survive by hustling on the streets.
We escaped from the hustle and bustle of the city for the weekend.
a beach hut
a wooden hut
Which is better exercise—swimming or tennis?
Which of the applicants has got the job?
Which of the patients have recovered?
Which way is the wind blowing?
Houses which overlook the lake cost more.
It was a crisis for which she was totally unprepared.
It was a crisis that she was totally unprepared for.
His best movie, which won several awards, was about the life of Gandhi.
Your claim ought to succeed, in which case the damages will be substantial.
The twins are so alike I can't tell which is which.
We must have been burgled while we were asleep.
Her parents died while she was still at school.
While I was waiting at the bus stop, three buses went by in the opposite direction.
You can go swimming while I'm having lunch.
shoes mended while you wait
While Tom's very good at science, his brother is absolutely hopeless.
While I am willing to help, I do not have much time available.
I waited while six o'clock.
'I'm just going to buy some postcards.' 'Can you get me some stamps while you're at it?'
They chatted for a while.
I'll be back in a little while (= a short time).
I haven't seen him for quite a while (= a fairly long time).
They walked back together, talking all the while (= all the time).
It will be worth your while to come to the meeting.
He'll do the job if you make it worth his while (= pay him well).
We whiled away the time reading and playing cards.
He spent the whole day writing.
We drank a whole bottle each.
The whole country (= all the people in it) mourned her death.
Let's forget the whole thing.
She wasn't telling the whole truth.
We offer a whole variety of weekend breaks.
I can't afford it—that's the whole point.
Owls usually swallow their prey whole (= without chewing it).
I've sold the whole lot.
Four quarters make a whole.
The subjects of the curriculum form a coherent whole.
The effects will last for the whole of his life.
On the whole, I'm in favour of the idea.
It's a whole new world out here.
That's a whole other story.
A mule is a hybrid of a male donkey and a female horse.
The music was a hybrid of Western pop and traditional folk song.
a hybrid car/vehicle
hydraulic fluid
hydraulic brakes
hydraulic engineering
hydraulically operated doors
to pay your hydro bill
a hydroelectric plant
hydroelectric power
food hygiene
personal hygiene
In the interests of hygiene, please wash your hands.
Food must be prepared in hygienic conditions.
Medical supplies are disposed of hygienically.
marketing/media hype
Don't believe all the hype—the book isn't that good.
This week his much hyped new movie opens in London.
The meeting was hyped up in the media as an important event.
hypercritical
hypertension
Click on the hyperlink.
He's hypersensitive to any kind of criticism.
Her skin is hypersensitive.
Is your name hyphenated?
hyphenation rules
She only remembered details of the accident under hypnosis.
He uses hypnosis as part of the treatment.
Hypnosis helped me give up smoking.
hypnotic music
His voice had an almost hypnotic effect.
a hypnotic trance/state
hypodermic
hypothermia
Don't be such a hypochondriac!—there's nothing wrong with you.
He condemned the hypocrisy of those politicians who do one thing and say another.
It would be hypocritical of me to have a church wedding when I don't believe in God.
a hypodermic injection (= one under the skin)
to formulate/confirm a hypothesis
a hypothesis about the function of dreams
It would be pointless to engage in hypothesis before we have the facts.
The causes can be hypothesized but not proved.
We can only hypothesize that the cases we know about are typical.
a hypothetical question/situation/example
Let us take the hypothetical case of Sheila, a mother of two…
I wasn't asking about anybody in particular—it was a purely hypothetical question.
There was mass hysteria when the band came on stage.
A note of hysteria crept into her voice.
the usual media hysteria that surrounds royal visits
public hysteria about AIDS
hysterical screams
a hysterical giggle
He became almost hysterical when I told him.
Let's not get hysterical.
(disapproving) He thought I was being a hysterical female.
She seemed to find my situation absolutely hysterical.
to laugh/cry/scream/sob hysterically
hysterically funny
He went into hysterics when he heard the news.
She had the audience in hysterics.
'Island' begins with (an) I/'I'.
I think I'd better go now.
He and I are old friends.
When they asked me if I wanted the job, I said yes.
I'm not going to fall, am I?
I'm taller than her, aren't I?
I can promise you, you'll have a wonderful time.
If you don't take my advice, you'll regret it, I promise you.
It isn't cheap, I can tell you!
I'm telling you, that's exactly what she said.
I could murder a beer.
I don't know how you can say things like that.
'What a ridiculous situation!' 'I know.'
I know, let's see what's on at the theatre.
'She called you a cheat.' 'Well, I like that!'
It was so boring—I mean, nothing happened for the first hour!
She's English—Scottish, I mean.
Well, I must say, that's the funniest thing I've heard all week.
I say! What a huge cake!
I say, can you lend me five pounds?
We first met in 2006, no, I tell a lie, it was 2007.
'You'll have finished by tomorrow.' 'I wish!'
I wouldn't say no to a pizza.
'Tea, Brian?' 'I wouldn't say no.'
The i-writer teaches you how to plan and write essays.
I'd just as soon stay at home as go out tonight.
She'd sooner share a house with other students than live at home with her parents.
The children can't wait for Christmas to come.
I can hardly wait to see him again.
I think we could all use a drink after that!
the basic essentials of life, i.e. housing, food and water
'Does she see him often?' 'I'll say! Nearly every day.'
I'll thank you to mind your own business.
I'm sorry, I forgot.
Oh, I'm sorry. Have I taken the one you wanted?
I'm sorry. I can't make it tomorrow.
I'm sorry, I don't agree.
I'm sorry, I'd rather you didn't go.
I'm sorry to have to tell you you've failed.
He didn't accept the job, I'm sorry to say.
I'll tell you what—let's stay in instead.
a poem written in iambic pentameters (= in lines of ten syllables, five short and five long)
to do the IB
the Iberian peninsula
There was ice on the windows.
The lake was covered with a sheet of ice.
My hands are as cold as ice.
The dancers came out onto the ice.
Both teams are on the ice, waiting for the whistle.
I'll have lemonade please—no ice.
We've had to put our plans on ice for the time being.
Cinderella on ice
You should make sure that you have an ICE number stored in your phone.
Desserts are served with cream or ice cream.
Who wants an ice cream?
to go ice skating
ice-cold beer
My hands were ice-cold.
His eyes had grown ice-cold.
iced coffee/tea
an iced cake
icy winds/water
My feet were icy cold.
icy roads
My eyes met his icy gaze.
'I have nothing to say to you,' she said icily.
Click on the printer icon with the mouse.
Tap the app icon on your phone to open it.
Madonna and other pop icons of the 1980s
a feminist/gay icon (= sb that feminists/gay people admire)
the iconoclasm of the early Christians
You must carry ID at all times.
The police checked IDs at the gate.
an ID card
The police need a witness to make a positive ID.
The police haven't yet managed to ID the suspect.
The security guards ID'd everyone at the entrance to the festival.
It would be a good idea to call before we leave.
I like the idea of living on a boat.
He already had an idea for his next novel.
Her family expected her to go to college, but she had other ideas.
The surprise party was Jane's idea.
It might be an idea (= it would be sensible) to try again later.
We've been toying with the idea of (= thinking about) getting a dog.
It seemed like a good idea at the time, and then it all went horribly wrong.
The latest big idea is to make women more interested in sport.
The brochure should give you a good idea of the hotel.
I had some idea of what the job would be like.
She doesn't seem to have any idea of what I'm talking about.
I don't want anyone getting the wrong idea (= getting the wrong impression about sth).
An evening at home watching TV is not my idea of a good time.
He has some very strange ideas about education.
What gave you the idea that he'd be here?
I have a pretty good idea where I left it—I hope I'm right.
You'll soon get the idea (= understand).
What's the idea of the game?
Hey, that's an idea! And we could get a band, as well.
That's the idea! You're doing fine.
You've no idea how much traffic there was tonight.
This beach is ideal for children.
She's the ideal candidate for the job.
The trip to Paris will be an ideal opportunity to practise my French.
the search for ideal love
In an ideal world there would be no poverty and disease.
In an ideal world we would be recycling and reusing everything.
She's ideally suited for this job.
Ideally, I'd like to live in New York, but that's not possible.
political ideals
She found it hard to live up to his high ideals.
It's my ideal of what a family home should be.
It is tempting to idealize the past.
an idealized view of married life
He was full of youthful idealism.
He's too much of an idealist for this government.
She's still young and idealistic.
Marxist/capitalist ideology
the ideology of gender roles
alternative ideologies
ideological differences
ideologically correct
The bodies were identified as those of two suspected drug dealers.
Passengers were asked to identify their own suitcases before they were put on the plane.
Many of those arrested refused to identify themselves (= would not say who they were).
First of all we must identify the problem areas.
Scientists have identified a link between diet and cancer.
As yet they have not identified a buyer for the company.
They are trying to identify what is wrong with the present system.
In many cases, the clothes people wear identify them as belonging to a particular social class.
I didn't enjoy the book because I couldn't identify with any of the main characters.
He was not the 'tough guy' the public identified him with.
You should not identify wealth with happiness.
The police are trying to discover the identity of the killer.
Their identities were kept secret.
She is innocent; it was a case of mistaken identity.
Do you have any proof of identity?
The thief used a false identity.
She went through an identity crisis in her teens (= was not sure of who she was or of her place in society).
a sense of national/cultural/personal/group identity
a plan to strengthen the corporate identity of the company
an identity of interests
There's a close identity between fans and their team.
a row of identical houses
The two pictures are similar, although not identical.
Her dress is almost identical to mine.
The number on the card should be identical with the one on the chequebook.
This is the identical room we stayed in last year.
The children were dressed identically.
identifiable characteristics
The house is easily identifiable by the large tree outside.
The identification of the crash victims was a long and difficult task.
Each product has a number for easy identification.
an identification number
Only one witness could make a positive identification.
The early identification of children with special educational needs is very important.
Can I see some identification, please?
her emotional identification with the play's heroine
their increasing identification with the struggle for independence
the voters' identification of the Democrats with high taxes
the ides of March
the idiocies of bureaucracy
'Let the cat out of the bag' is an idiom meaning to tell a secret by mistake.
the classical/contemporary/popular idiom
She speaks fluent and idiomatic English.
an idiomatic expression
The car has its little idiosyncrasies.
His teaching methods are idiosyncratic but successful.
When I lost my passport, I felt such an idiot.
Not that switch, you idiot!
an idiotic question
Don't be so idiotic!
IDK what to do about it.
an idle student
to lie/stand/remain idle
Over ten per cent of the workforce is now idle.
idle chatter/curiosity
It was just an idle threat (= not serious).
It is idle to pretend that their marriage is a success.
In idle moments, he carved wooden figures.
After a period of enforced idleness, she found a new job.
They idled the days away, talking and watching television.
They idled along by the river (= walked slowly and with no particular purpose).
She left the car idling at the roadside.
The strikes have idled nearly 4 000 workers.
She sat in the sun, idly sipping a cool drink.
He wondered idly what would happen.
We can't stand idly by (= do nothing) and let people starve.
a pop/football/teen, etc. idol
the idol of countless teenagers
a fallen idol (= sb who is no longer popular)
football fans whose support for their team borders on idolatry
a pop star idolized by millions of fans
They idolize their kids.
a house set in idyllic surroundings
to lead an idyllic existence
The cottage sounds idyllic.
a house idyllically set in wooded grounds
If you see him, give him this note.
I'll only stay if you offer me more money.
If necessary I can come at once.
You can stay for the weekend if you like.
If anyone calls, tell them I'm not at home.
If he improved his IT skills, he'd (= he would) easily get a job.
You would know what was going on if you'd (= you had) listened.
They would have been here by now if they'd caught the early train.
If I was in charge, I'd do things differently.
(rather formal) If I were in charge…
Even if (= although) you did see someone, you can't be sure it was him.
If metal gets hot it expands.
She glares at me if I go near her desk.
If you will sit down for a few moments, I'll tell the manager you're here.
If you would care to leave your name, we'll contact you as soon as possible.
Do you know if he's married?
I wonder if I should wear a coat or not.
He couldn't tell if she was laughing or crying.
Listen to the tune and see if you can remember the words.
I am sorry if I disturbed you.
I'd be grateful if you would keep it a secret.
Do you mind if I turn the TV off?
If she has any weakness, it is her Italian.
So what if he was late. Who cares?
He's a good driver, if a little over-confident.
We'll only do it once— if at all.
If you ask me, she's too scared to do it.
If you think about it, those children must be at school by now.
If you remember, Mary was always fond of animals.
If I may make a suggestion, perhaps we could begin a little earlier next week.
If and when we ever meet again I hope he remembers what I did for him.
I'd say he was more like his father, if anything.
She's not thin—if anything she's on the plump side.
If I were you I'd start looking for another job.
I'll go if you're going. If not (= if you are not) I'd rather stay at home.
Are you ready? If not, I'm going without you.
Do you want that cake? If not, I'll have it.
They cost thousands if not millions of pounds to build.
If only I were rich.
If only I knew her name.
If only he'd remembered to send that letter.
If only I had gone by taxi.
I'm surprised they've invited me to their wedding—it's not as if I know them well.
Only if a teacher has given permission is a student allowed to leave the room.
Only if the red light comes on is there any danger to employees.
If he wins—and it's a big if —he'll be the first Englishman to win for fifty years.
There are still a lot of ifs and buts before everything's settled.
If I were in your place, I'd resign immediately.
If I were in your shoes, I'd resign immediately.
I don't know what I've done to upset him, but if looks could kill…
If the worst comes to the worst, we'll just have to sell the house.
'Shall we stop now?' 'If you like.'
If you like, we could go out this evening.
It was, if you like, the dawn of a new era.
'Can I smoke?' 'If you must.'
It's from my boyfriend, if you must know.
Take a seat, if you please.
And now, if you please, he wants me to rewrite the whole thing!
When it comes to the point, he always changes his mind.
That meat smells a bit iffy to me.
The weather looks slightly iffy.
Gas ignites very easily.
(figurative) Tempers ignited when the whole family spent Christmas together.
Flames melted a lead pipe and ignited leaking gas.
(figurative) His words ignited their anger.
to turn the ignition on/off
to put the key in the ignition
The flames spread to all parts of the house within minutes of ignition.
ignoble thoughts
an ignoble person
They suffered the ignominy of defeat.
an ignominious defeat
He made one mistake and his career came to an ignominious end.
When it comes to music, I'm a complete ignoramus.
widespread ignorance of/about the disease
They fought a long battle against prejudice and ignorance.
She was kept in ignorance of her husband's activities.
Children often behave badly out of/through ignorance.
I really don't know.
I'm afraid I don't have the faintest idea.
Sorry, I have absolutely no idea.
Has anyone left a message? No, not to my knowledge/not as far as I know.
Well, that's a good question.
Yes, that's an interesting point/idea.
Well, let me see…
Let me think about that for a moment.
an ignorant person/question
Never make your students feel ignorant.
He's ignorant about modern technology.
At that time I was ignorant of events going on elsewhere.
a rude, ignorant person
He ignored all the 'No Smoking' signs and lit up a cigarette.
I made a suggestion but they chose to ignore it.
We cannot afford to ignore their advice.
She ignored him and carried on with her work.
a country in Africa
The kids were playing in the street.
It's in that drawer.
I read about it in the paper.
She was lying in bed.
sitting in an armchair
Leave the key in the lock.
Soak it in cold water.
He dipped his brush in the paint.
She got in her car and drove off.
There are 31 days in May.
all the paintings in the collection
I recognize his father in him (= his character is similar to his father's).
in 2009
in the 18th century
in spring/summer/autumn/winter
in the fall
in March
in the morning/afternoon/evening
I'm getting forgetful in my old age.
to return in a few minutes/hours/days/months.
It will be ready in a week's time (= one week from now).
She learnt to drive in three weeks (= after three weeks she could drive).
I haven't seen him in years.
It's the first letter I've had in ten days.
dressed in their best clothes
the man in the hat
to be in uniform
She was all in black.
We went out in the rain.
He was sitting alone in the darkness.
I'm in love!
The house is in good repair.
I must put my affairs in order.
a man in his thirties
The daffodils were in full bloom.
to act in a play
He is in the army.
She's in computers.
in business
a novel in three parts
Roll it up in a ball.
They sat in rows.
People flocked in their thousands to see her.
Say it in English.
She wrote in pencil.
Put it in writing.
I paid in cash.
He spoke in a loud voice.
She was not lacking in courage.
a country rich in minerals
three metres in length
In attempting to save the child from drowning, she nearly lost her own life.
In all the commotion I forgot to tell him the news.
We're losing a first-rate editor in Jen.
a gradient of one in five
a tax rate of 22 pence in the pound
She was fortunate in that she had friends to help her.
We were locked in.
I can't drink coffee with milk in.
She opened the door and went in.
The kids were playing by the river and one of them fell in.
Nobody was in when we called.
The bus is due in (= it should arrive) at six.
Applications must be in by April 30.
Is the tide coming in or going out?
Several new councillors got in at the last election.
Her serve was just in.
He was in and out of jail for most of his life.
Purple is the in colour this spring.
Exotic pets are the in thing right now.
Short skirts are in again.
the ins and outs of the problem
He quickly learned the ins and outs of the job.
the world of media people and their ilk
I can't stand him, or any others of that ilk.
Her father is seriously ill in St Luke's hospital.
She was taken ill suddenly.
We both started to feel ill shortly after the meal.
Uncle Harry is terminally ill with cancer (= he will die from his illness).
the mentally ill (= people with a mental illness)
(formal) He fell ill and died soon after.
He resigned because of ill health (= he was often ill).
She suffered no ill effects from the experience.
a woman of ill repute (= considered to be immoral)
a bird of ill omen
The animals had been grossly ill-treated.
They live in an area ill served by public transport.
We're wasting valuable time, time we can ill afford.
social/economic ills
the ills of the modern world
I may not like him, but I wish him no ill.
He retired early on grounds of ill health.
I recommend you get insurance against sickness and unemployment.
She resigned because of ill health.
heart trouble
I bear Sue no ill will.
Her remarks were ill-advised, to say the least.
You would be ill-advised to travel on your own.
They seem an ill-assorted couple.
an ill-defined role
an ill-defined path
an ill-fated expedition
ill-fitting clothes
All our fears proved ill-founded.
ill-gotten gains (= money that was not obtained fairly)
The team was ill-prepared for a disaster on that scale.
an ill-prepared speech
an ill-starred marriage
an ill-timed visit
the ill-treatment of prisoners
illegal immigrants/aliens
It's illegal to drive through a red light.
an illegally parked car
He entered the country illegally.
No illegality is suspected.
an illegible signature
illegitimate use of company property
illiberal policies
illicit drugs
an illicit love affair
computer illiterate
musically illiterate
mental illness
I missed a lot of school through illness last year.
minor/serious illnesses
childhood illnesses
He died after a long illness.
illogical behaviour/arguments
She has an illogical fear of insects.
Floodlights illuminated the stadium.
The earth is illuminated by the sun.
This text illuminates the philosopher's early thinking.
Her smile illuminated her entire being.
the illuminated city at night
illuminated manuscripts
We didn't find the examples he used particularly illuminating.
The only illumination in the room came from the fire.
Christmas illuminations
spiritual illumination
She's under the illusion that (= believes wrongly that) she'll get the job.
The new president has no illusions about the difficulties facing her country (= she knows that the country has serious problems).
He could no longer distinguish between illusion and reality.
Mirrors in a room often give an illusion of space.
The idea of absolute personal freedom is an illusion.
There is an illusive sense of depth.
an illusory sense of freedom
an illustrated textbook
His lecture was illustrated with photos taken during the expedition.
To illustrate my point, let me tell you a little story.
Last year's sales figures are illustrated in Figure 2.
Here's an example to illustrate what I mean.
The incident illustrates the need for better security measures.
50 full-colour illustrations
the art of book illustration
Let me, by way of illustration, quote from one of her poems.
an illustrative example
The composer was one of many illustrious visitors to the town.
a long and illustrious career
His public image is very different from the real person.
The advertisements are intended to improve the company's image.
Image is very important in the music world.
stereotyped images of women in children's books
images of the past
I had a mental image of what she would look like.
Images of deer and hunters decorate the cave walls.
a wooden image of the Hindu god Ganesh
He stared at his own image reflected in the water.
Slowly, an image began to appear on the screen.
poetic images of the countryside
imaginary fears
The equator is an imaginary line around the middle of the earth.
poetic imagery
satellite imagery (= for example, photographs of the earth taken from space)
I can't imagine life without the children now.
Close your eyes and imagine (that) you are in a forest.
Can you imagine what it must be like to lose your job after 20 years?
She imagined walking into the office and handing in her resignation.
Imagine earning that much money!
I can just imagine him saying that!
I had imagined her to be older than that.
I can imagine him really angry.
(informal) 'He was furious.' ' I can imagine.'
He's always imagining (that) we're talking about him behind his back.
There's nobody there. You're imagining things.
'Can we still buy tickets for the concert?' 'I imagine so.'
I don't imagine (that) they'll refuse.
The house has the most spectacular views imaginable.
They stock every imaginable type of pasta.
These technological developments were hardly imaginable 30 years ago.
a vivid/fertile imagination
He's got no imagination.
It doesn't take much imagination to guess what she meant.
I won't tell you his reaction— I'll leave that to your imagination.
Don't let your imagination run away with you (= don't use too much imagination).
The new policies appear to have caught the imagination of the public (= they find them interesting and exciting).
Nobody hates you—it's all in your imagination.
(informal) Use your imagination! (= used to tell sb that they will have to guess the answer to the question they have asked you, usually because it is obvious or embarrassing)
She was no longer able to distinguish between imagination and reality.
Is it my imagination or have you lost a lot of weight?
His writing lacks imagination.
With a little imagination, you could turn this place into a palace.
Her tight-fitting dress left nothing to the imagination.
an imaginative approach/idea/child
recipes that make imaginative use of seasonal vegetables
The stables have been imaginatively converted into offices.
imaging software
a global imbalance of/in power
Attempts are being made to redress (= put right) the imbalance between our import and export figures.
They behaved like imbeciles.
imbecile remarks
a government imbizo on poverty
The minister of labour will be holding an imbizo with farmers in the area.
Her voice was imbued with an unusual seriousness.
He was imbued with a desire for social justice.
an immediate reaction/response
to take immediate action
Our immediate concern is to help the families of those who died.
The effects of global warming, while not immediate, are potentially catastrophic.
The hospital says she's out of immediate danger.
in the immediate vicinity
The prospects for the immediate future are good.
The director is standing on her immediate right.
my immediate predecessor in the job (= the person who had the job just before me)
The funeral was attended by her immediate family (= her parents, children, brothers and sisters) only.
He is my immediate superior (= the person directly above me) in the company.
The immediate cause of death is unknown.
Her style of painting has been imitated by other artists.
Art imitates Nature.
Teachers provide a model for children to imitate.
No computer can imitate the complex functions of the human brain.
She knew that the girls used to imitate her and laugh at her behind her back.
a poor/cheap imitation of the real thing
This latest production is a pale imitation of the original (= it is not nearly as good).
imitation leather/pearls
A child learns to talk by imitation.
Many corporate methods have been adopted by American managers in imitation of Japanese practice.
He does an imitation of Barack Obama.
movies that encourage imitative crime
His work has been criticized for being imitative and shallow.
The band's success has inspired hundreds of would-be imitators.
She always looks immaculate.
an immaculate uniform/room
an immaculate performance
immaculately dressed
The cost is immaterial.
It is immaterial to me whether he stays or goes.
an immaterial God
immature behaviour
immature plants
to cause immeasurable harm
Housing standards improved immeasurably after the war.
Stress has an immeasurably more serious effect on our lives than we realize.
the immediacy of threat
Email lacks the immediacy of online chat.
Our aim is immediacy of response to emergency calls.
an immemorial tradition
My family has lived in this area from time immemorial (= for hundreds of years).
immensely popular/difficult/grateful
We enjoyed ourselves immensely.
the immensity of the universe
We were overwhelmed by the sheer immensity of the task.
She immersed herself in her work.
Clare and Phil were immersed in conversation in the corner.
Immersion in cold water resulted in rapid loss of heat.
baptism by total immersion (= putting the whole body underwater)
his long immersion in politics
a two-week immersion course in French (= in which the student will hear and use only French)
Immersive games can be used for training and education.
immigrant communities/families/workers
illegal immigrants
laws restricting immigration into the US
a rise/fall in immigration
immigration officers
to go through immigration
the imminent threat of invasion
The system is in imminent danger of collapse.
An announcement about his resignation is imminent.
the imminence of death
She stood immobile by the window.
His illness has left him completely immobile.
a device to immobilize the car engine in case of theft
Always immobilize a broken leg immediately.
immoderate drinking
an immodest dress
It's immoral to steal.
There's nothing immoral about wanting to earn more money.
an immoral act/life/person
They were charged with living off immoral earnings (= money earned by working as a prostitute ).
the immorality of war
a life of immorality
The soul is immortal.
the immortal Goethe
In the immortal words of Henry Ford, 'If it ain't broke, don't fix it.'
She is one of the Hollywood immortals.
The poet fell in love with her and immortalized her in his verse.
belief in the immortality of the soul
He is well on his way to showbusiness immortality.
an immovable object
On this issue he is completely immovable.
Adults are often immune to German measles.
You'll eventually become immune to criticism.
No one should be immune from prosecution.
an immunization programme to prevent epidemics
immunity to infection
The vaccine provides longer immunity against flu.
The spies were all granted immunity from prosecution.
parliamentary/congressional immunity (= protection against particular laws that is given to politicians)
Officials of all member states receive certain privileges and immunities.
human immunodeficiency virus or HIV
It's a nice performance, not among his best, IMO.
the environmental impact of tourism
The report assesses the impact of AIDS on the gay community.
Her speech made a profound impact on everyone.
Businesses are beginning to feel the full impact of the recession.
craters made by meteorite impacts
The impact of the blow knocked Jack off balance.
The bomb explodes on impact (= when it hits something).
The car is fitted with side impact bars (= to protect it from a blow from the side).
Her father's death impacted greatly on her childhood years.
(business 商业) The company's performance was impacted by the high value of the pound.
impaired vision/memory
hearing-impaired children
Nowadays we say someone is 'speech-impaired', not dumb.
impairment of the functions of the kidney
visual impairments
She impaled a lump of meat on her fork.
He had fallen and been impaled on some iron railings.
The spice imparts an Eastern flavour to the dish.
an impartial inquiry/observer
to give impartial advice
As chairman, I must remain impartial.
to break/end the impasse
Negotiations have reached an impasse.
an impassioned plea/speech/defence
her impassive expression/face
I'd been waiting for twenty minutes and I was getting impatient.
Try not to be too impatient with her.
Sarah was becoming increasingly impatient at their lack of interest.
He waved them away with an impatient gesture.
She was clearly impatient to leave.
impatient for change
impatient of criticism
She was bursting with impatience to tell me the news.
We sat waiting impatiently for the movie to start.
to impeach sb's motives
an impeachable offense
impeccable manners/taste
Her written English is impeccable.
He was dressed in a suit and an impeccable white shirt.
to behave impeccably
impeccably dressed
The level of inflation is a serious impediment to economic recovery.
a speech impediment
He felt impelled to investigate further.
There are various reasons that impel me to that conclusion.
his impending retirement
warnings of impending danger/disaster
an impenetrable jungle
impenetrable darkness
an impenetrable mystery
Their jargon is impenetrable to an outsider.
It is absolutely imperative that we finish by next week.
It is imperative to continue the treatment for at least two months.
It is vital that journalists can verify the accuracy of their reports.
Journalists play a vital / crucial role in educating the public.
Public trust is a crucial issue for all news organizations.
The ability to write well is essential for any journalist.
The Internet has become an indispensable tool for reporters.
In journalism, accuracy is paramount /…is of paramount importance.
It is imperative that journalists maintain the highest possible standards of reporting.
an imperative tone
an imperative sentence
the economic imperative of quality education for all
In 'Go away!' the verb is in the imperative.
'Go away!' is an imperative.
imperceptible changes in temperature
an imperfect world
an imperfect understanding of English
All our sale items are slightly imperfect.
In 'while I was washing my hair', the verb is in the imperfect.
They learned to live with each other's imperfections.
the imperial family/palace/army
imperial power/expansion
Roman imperialism
cultural/economic imperialism
an imperialist power
imperialist ambitions
an imperious gesture/voice/command
'Get it now,' she demanded imperiously.
an impermissible invasion of privacy
a vast impersonal organization
an impersonal hotel room
Business letters need not be formal and impersonal.
a cold impersonal stare
Let's keep the criticism general and impersonal.
the cold impersonality of some modern cities
He was caught trying to impersonate a security guard.
They do a pretty good job of impersonating Laurel and Hardy.
He did an extremely convincing impersonation of the singer.
The show included a female impersonator (= a man dressed as a woman).
an impertinent question/child
Would it be impertinent to ask why you're leaving?
She had the impertinence to ask my age!
impervious to criticism/pain
an impervious rock/layer
impervious to moisture
an impetuous young woman
an impetuous decision
The debate seems to have lost much of its initial impetus.
to give (a) new/fresh impetus to sth
His articles provided the main impetus for change.
He never allowed his work to impinge on his private life.
an impish grin/look
implacable hatred
an implacable enemy
to be implacably opposed to the plan
Prejudices can easily become implanted in the mind.
an electrode implanted into the brain
silicone breast implants
the implausibility of this theory
an implausible claim/idea/theory
It was all highly implausible.
to implement changes/decisions/policies/reforms
the implementation of the new system
agricultural implements
He tried to avoid saying anything that would implicate him further.
The results implicate poor hygiene as one cause of the outbreak.
They failed to consider the wider implications of their actions.
The development of the site will have implications for the surrounding countryside.
The implication in his article is that being a housewife is greatly inferior to every other occupation.
He criticized the Director and, by implication, the whole of the organization.
He resigned after his implication in a sex scandal.
An implicature of 'Some of my friends came' is 'Some of my friends did not come'.
Implicit in his speech was the assumption that they were guilty.
implicit criticism
The ability to listen is implicit in the teacher's role.
She had the implicit trust of her staff.
It reinforces, implicitly or explicitly, the idea that money is all-important.
I trust John implicitly.
Are you implying (that) I am wrong?
I disliked the implied criticism in his voice.
It was implied that we were at fault.
The article implied that the pilot was responsible for the accident.
I inferred from the article that the pilot was responsible for the accident.
The survey implies (that) more people are moving house than was thought.
It was implied in the survey that…
The fact that she was here implies a degree of interest.
The project implies an enormous investment in training.
She implored him to stay.
'Help me,' he implored.
Tell me it's true. I implore you.
She gave him an imploring look.
It would have been impolitic to refuse his offer.
We can't predict the outcome. There are too many imponderables.
an important decision/factor
I have an important announcement to make.
Money played an important role in his life.
Listening is an important part of the job.
one of the most important collections of American art
It is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions.
It is important that he attend every day.
(BrE) It is important that he should attend every day.
It is important for him to attend every day.
It's very important to me that you should be there.
The important thing is to keep trying.
an important member of the team
He likes to feel important.
More importantly, can he be trusted?
She was sitting importantly behind a big desk.
food imports from abroad
The report calls for a ban on the import of hazardous waste.
import controls
an import licence
imports of oil
matters of great import
It is difficult to understand the full import of this statement.
The country has to import most of its raw materials.
goods imported from Japan into the US
customs imported from the West
a ban on the importation of ivory
She stressed the importance of careful preparation.
It's a matter of the greatest importance to me.
They attach great importance to the project.
the relative importance of the two ideas
State your reasons in order of importance.
He was very aware of his own importance (= of his status).
a London-based importer of Italian food
A new tax was imposed on fuel.
to impose limitations/restrictions/constraints on sth
This system imposes additional financial burdens on many people.
She didn't want to impose her values on her family.
It was noticeable how a few people managed to impose their will on the others.
'You must stay for lunch.' 'Well, thanks, but I don't want to impose…'
Everyone imposes on Dave's good nature.
European civilization was the first to impose itself across the whole world.
a grand and imposing building
a tall imposing woman
the imposition of martial law
the imposition of tax on domestic fuel
I'd like to stay if it's not too much of an imposition.
almost/virtually impossible
It's impossible for me to be there before eight.
It's impossible to prove.
I find it impossible to lie to her.
an impossible dream/goal
I've been placed in an impossible position.
Honestly, you're impossible at times!
to attempt the impossible
the sheer impossibility of providing enough food for everyone
a virtual impossibility
an impossibly difficult problem (= impossible to solve)
He was impossibly handsome (= it was difficult to believe that he could be so handsome ).
Without the chairman's support, the committee is impotent.
She blazed with impotent rage.
a feeling of impotence in the face of an apparently insoluble problem
male impotence
These changes are likely to impoverish single-parent families even further.
Intensive cultivation has impoverished the soil.
impoverished peasants
the impoverished areas of the city
It would be impracticable for each member to be consulted on every occasion.
It was totally impractical to think that we could finish the job in two months.
an imprecise definition
imprecise information
The witness's descriptions were too imprecise to be of any real value.
These terms are often used imprecisely and interchangeably.
There is considerable imprecision in the terminology used.
an impregnable fortress
The team built up an impregnable 5–1 lead.
The pad is impregnated with insecticide.
We interviewed a number of candidates but none of them impressed us.
The Grand Canyon never fails to impress.
His sincerity impressed her.
He impressed her with his sincerity.
It impressed me that she remembered my name.
I was impressed that she remembered my name.
He impressed on us the need for immediate action.
Her words impressed themselves on my memory.
I must admit I am impressed.
We were all impressed by her enthusiasm.
She was suitably impressed (= as impressed as sb had hoped) with the painting.
a general/an overall impression
an initial/a lasting impression
to get a good/bad impression of sb/sth
My first impression of him was favourable.
She gives the impression of being very busy.
I did not get the impression that they were unhappy about the situation.
My impression is that there are still a lot of problems.
Try and smile. You don't want to give people the wrong impression (= that you are not friendly).
a big impression
His trip to India made a strong impression on him.
My words made no impression on her.
You'll have to play better than that if you really want to make an impression (= to make people admire you).
This is an artist's impression of the new stadium.
He did an impression of Tom Hanks.
Clever lighting creates an impression of space in a room.
children at an impressionable age
Impressionist landscapes
Impressionists such as Monet and Pissarro
an impressive building with a huge tower
an impressive performance
one of the most impressive novels of recent years
She was very impressive in the interview.
impressively high
impressively organized
The terrible scenes were indelibly imprinted on his mind.
clothes imprinted with the logos of sports teams
the imprint of a foot in the sand
They were imprisoned for possession of drugs.
(figurative) Some young mothers feel imprisoned in their own homes.
to be sentenced to life imprisonment for murder
an improbable story
It all sounded highly improbable.
It seems improbable that the current situation will continue.
Her hair was an improbable shade of yellow.
the improbability of finding them alive
statistical improbability
He claimed, improbably, that he had never been there.
an improbably happy ending
an impromptu speech
improper business practices
improper conduct
There was nothing improper about our relationship (= it did not involve sex).
It would be improper to comment at this stage.
improper use of the drug
to behave improperly
He was improperly dressed for the occasion.
improperly cooked meat
His quality of life has improved dramatically since the operation.
The doctor says she should continue to improve (= after an illness).
to improve standards
The company needs to improve performance in all these areas.
I need to improve my French.
We've certainly improved on last year's figures.
Sales figures continue to show signs of improvement.
We expect to see further improvement over the coming year.
There is still room for improvement in your work.
a significant/substantial/dramatic improvement
a slight/steady improvement
an improvement in Anglo-German relations
This is a great improvement on your previous work.
improvements to the bus service
There isn't much equipment. We're going to have to improvise.
We improvised some shelves out of planks of wood and bricks.
'It'll be ready some time next week, I expect,' she said, improvising.
He improvised on the melody.
an improvised speech
It would be imprudent to invest all your money in one company.
an impudent young fellow
an impudent remark
He had a sudden impulse to stand up and sing.
I resisted the impulse to laugh.
Her first impulse was to run away.
The door was open and on (an) impulse she went inside.
He tends to act on impulse.
nerve/electrical impulses
to give an impulse to the struggling car industry
It was an impulse buy.
Lack of food and water provided much of the impulsion for their speed.
an impulsive decision/gesture
You're so impulsive!
He has an impulsive nature.
Impulsively he reached out and took her hand.
impure gold
A filter will remove most impurities found in water.
An eclipse happens when the earth and moon are in line with the sun.
After heavy rain, the river was in spate.
(figurative) Celia was in full spate (= completely involved in talking and not likely to stop or able to be interrupted).
He keeps in trim by running every day.
The team need to get in trim for the coming season.
She always celebrates her birthday in style.
He won the championship in great style.
The kids will be leaving home in no time.
You must not view what happened in a negative light.
They want to present their policies in the best possible light.
All these points of view are related, in a manner of speaking.
You won't find it, not in a month of Sundays.
This is her third win in a row.
Inflation has fallen for the third month in a row.
He was gone in a trice.
This kind of decision cannot ever be made in a vacuum.
'Would you like to help us?' 'In a word, no.'
Two foreign suspects will be tried in absentia.
He runs the company in all but name.
In all probability he failed to understand the consequences of his actions.
She goes out jogging in all weathers.
a salty/bitter/sweet, etc. taste
I don't like the taste of olives.
This dish has an unusual combination of tastes and textures.
The soup has very little taste.
I've lost my sense of taste.
Just have a taste of this cheese.
This was my first taste of live theatre.
Although we didn't know it, this incident was a taste of things to come.
He has very good taste in music.
They've got more money than taste.
The room was furnished with taste.
That trip gave me a taste for foreign travel.
She has very expensive tastes in clothes.
The colour and style is a matter of personal taste.
Modern art is not to everyone's taste.
There are trips to suit all tastes.
Add salt and pepper to taste.
It tastes sweet.
The ice tasted of mint.
This drink tastes like sherry.
foul-tasting medicine
You can taste the garlic in this stew.
Taste it and see if you think there's enough salt in it.
I've never tasted anything like it.
He had tasted freedom only to lose it again.
When we arrived the party was already in full swing.
He was shot in full view of a large crowd.
The government in its wisdom has decided to support the ban.
The manager showed us to our 'luxury apartment', in inverted commas.
To make sense, these figures should not be looked at in isolation.
In itself, it's not a difficult problem to solve.
The remark was made half in jest.
'Many a true word is spoken in jest,' thought Rosie (= people often say things as a joke that are actually true).
All I can say in justification of her actions is that she was under a lot of pressure at work.
The latest results are in keeping with our earlier findings.
She insulted him and he responded in kind.
Their success is due in large part to their determination.
They took cash in lieu of the prize they had won.
We work on Saturdays and have a day off in lieu during the week.
She is in line for promotion.
Annual pay increases will be in line with inflation.
He began his story in medias res.
He founded the charity in memory of his late wife.
The developments in this town represent in microcosm what is happening in the country as a whole.
a doll's house with everything in miniature
Through play, children act out in miniature the dramas of adult life.
Children may eat pills in mistake for sweets.
In mitigation, the defence lawyer said his client was seriously depressed at the time of the assault.
I wouldn't like to be in your place.
He's party leader in name only.
The introduction of a new tax accounted in no small measure for the downfall of the government.
Our thanks are due in equal measure to every member of the team.
I told him what I thought of him in no uncertain terms.
She's a mother and company director in one.
It's a public relations office, a press office and a private office all in one.
The system has been in operation for six months.
Temporary traffic controls are in operation on New Road.
Protest marches were held in opposition to the proposed law.
Leisure is often defined in opposition to work.
Is your work permit in order?
Is everything in order, sir?
I think a drink would be in order.
Is it in order to speak now?
All those concerned must work together in order that agreement can be reached on this issue.
She arrived early in order to get a good seat.
In order to get a complete picture, further information is needed.
They asked him to leave—in other words he was fired.
Students worked in pairs on the project.
The new degree and the existing certificate courses would run in parallel.
Her success was due in part to luck.
He loves science fiction in particular.
Peter was lying on the sofa doing nothing in particular.
Is there anything in particular you'd like for dinner?
She directed the question at no one in particular.
He only mentioned it in passing and didn't give any details.
All her jewellery was in pawn.
They do not own the land in perpetuity.
The traffic lights were out of phase.
Carefully lay each slab in place.
The receiver had already clicked into place.
All the arrangements are now in place for their visit.
You can use milk in place of cream in this recipe.
He was unable to come to the ceremony, but he sent his son to accept the award in his place.
Prisoners have legal rights, but in practice these rights are not always respected.
She was chosen in preference to her sister.
In principle there is nothing that a human can do that a machine might not be able to do one day.
They have agreed to the proposal in principle but we still have to negotiate the terms.
It was the first time he had seen his name in print.
Is there somewhere we can discuss this in private?
Work on the new offices is now in progress.
Please be quiet—examination in progress.
She doesn't like to be seen in public without her make-up on.
They may need to borrow money in pursuance of their legal action.
On the day in question we were in Cardiff.
The future of public transport is not in question.
The children were dressed in rags.
Outwardly she seemed confident but in reality she felt extremely nervous.
The money was being kept in reserve for their retirement.
200 police officers were held in reserve.
a writer in residence
A writ was served on the firm in respect of their unpaid bill.
money received in respect of overtime worked
In retrospect, I think that I was wrong.
The decision seems extremely odd, in retrospect.
Can I buy you lunch in return for your help?
I asked her opinion, but she just asked me a question in return.
The secret number is my phone number in reverse.
We did a similar trip to you, but in reverse.
Years of fighting have left the area in ruins.
The scandal left his reputation in ruins.
The engine is now in perfect working order.
The document was signed in the presence of two witnesses.
She asked them not to discuss the matter in her presence.
In the train of the rich and famous came the journalists.
The family pet was left in the trust of a neighbour.
We reserved two tickets in the name of Brown.
The car is registered in my name.
I arrest you in the name of the law.
crimes committed in the name of religion
Foxton was dismissed and John Smith was appointed in his stead.
The meeting was held in secret.
His novels belong to a great but vanished age. They are, in short, old-fashioned.
Basic foodstuffs were in short supply.
Sunshine will be in short supply for the west coast.
Her nerves were in shreds.
The country's economy is in shreds.
The document was in shreds on the floor.
Sleep came to him in brief snatches.
He'd got his revenge now, and in spades.
I shall be with you in spirit (= thinking about you though not with you physically).
I'm sure he only said it out of spite.
In spite of his age, he still leads an active life.
They went swimming in spite of all the danger signs.
English became the official language for business in spite of the fact that the population was largely Chinese.
He fell asleep, in spite of himself.
They're playing the music so loud just to spite us.
The water came out of the tap in spurts.
The play had us in stitches.
We don't know what life holds in store for us.
If she had known what lay in store for her, she would never have agreed to go.
They think it'll be easy but they have a surprise in store.
Share prices slipped in sympathy with the German market.
The soundtrack is not in sync with the picture.
His opinions were in sync with those of his colleagues.
His clothes were in tatters.
Her reputation was in tatters.
The government's education policy lies in tatters.
The job is great in terms of salary, but it has its disadvantages.
What does this mean in terms of cost?
In practical terms this law may be difficult to enforce.
The decision was disastrous in political terms.
He's talking in terms of starting a completely new career.
In the first instance, notify the police and then contact your insurance company.
I still don't understand why you chose that name in the first place.
I should never have taken that job in the first place.
Well, in the first place he has all the right qualifications.
In the interest(s) of safety, smoking is forbidden.
Despite everything that had happened in the interim, they had remained good friends.
Her new job does not start until May and she will continue in the old job in the interim.
Somebody in the know told me he's going to resign.
Pete and Jo were still in the land of Nod, so I went out for a walk in the morning sunshine.
In the last resort we can always walk home.
He rewrote the book in the light of further research.
This measure inevitably means higher taxes in the long run.
Such a development seems unlikely, at least in the short term (= it will not happen for quite a long time).
The service here is, in the main, reliable.
a painting in the manner of Raphael
I'm not in the market for a new car at the moment.
My first novel was rejected by six publishers. In the meantime I had written a play.
I hope to go to medical school eventually. In the meanwhile, I am going to study chemistry.
a country in the midst of a recession
She discovered it in the midst of sorting out her father's things.
I'll give you a call in the morning.
It must have happened at about five o'clock in the morning.
His speech was in the nature of an apology.
It cost in the neighbourhood of $500.
She refuses to be photographed in the nude.
I hear there are more staff changes in the offing.
I studied Italian so that I would be able to read Dante in the original.
Help arrived in the person of his mother.
Litmus paper turns red in the presence of an acid.
He spent a couple of months on the streets to experience life in the raw.
He earns somewhere in the region of €50 000.
an opportunity to see Canova's work in the round
Three weeks after the accident he was back in the saddle.
In the short run, unemployment may fall.
We are all equal in the sight of God.
We're all in the soup now.
The new policy was adopted in the teeth of fierce criticism.
They crossed the bay in the teeth of a howling gale.
The country was in the throes of revolutionary change.
There have been demonstrations on the streets in the wake of the recent bomb attack.
A group of reporters followed in her wake.
The storm left a trail of destruction in its wake.
There's nothing in the world I'd like more than to visit New York.
Don't rush—we've got all the time in the world.
You look as if you haven't got a care in the world!
The motorcyclist was clearly in the wrong.
When I'm in the zone, writing is the most satisfying thing in the world.
John doesn't do too well in the personality stakes.
There is a traitor in our midst.
In theory, these machines should last for ten years or more.
That sounds fine in theory, but have you really thought it through?
I have nothing further to say in this regard.
They learned to accept their stepmother in time.
Will we be in time for the six o'clock train?
The ambulance got there just in time (= to save sb's life).
She turned up with her mother in tow.
Each sample was tested in triplicate.
She laughed and chatted but was, in truth, not having much fun.
The children called out their names in turn.
Increased production will, in turn, lead to increased profits.
He broke the bar of chocolate in two and gave me half.
People arrived in twos and threes.
The test can be performed in utero.
They tried in vain to persuade her to go.
All our efforts were in vain.
In view of the weather, the event will now be held indoors.
in vitro experiments
the development of in vitro fertilization
an egg fertilized in vitro
The present system is in want of a total review.
Could you say that again in words of one syllable?
All telephone reservations must be confirmed in writing.
Could you put your complaint in writing?
You must get it in writing.
Don't hassle him! He'll do it in his own good time.
She sings with a rock band, but she's also a jazz musician in her own right.
infinite
illogical
immorally
irrelevance
inflame
imperil
in-car entertainment
an in-depth discussion/study
an in-flight meal/movie
in-flight refuelling
an in-house magazine
in-house language training
This engine has been designed and produced in-house.
I prefer working in-house than being at an agency.
We're visiting my in-laws on Sunday.
in-service training
an in-store bakery
in-your-face action thrillers
Height: 6ft 2in.
The technology boom sent share prices into the stratosphere.
She just managed to keep the ball in play.
That one mistake left him thousands of pounds out of pocket.
She was out of step with her colleagues.
Morris is likely to win, with Jones out of the picture now.
The new market is in the shadow of the City Hall.
With reference to your letter of July 22…
a country's laws in regard to human rights
The company's position with regard to overtime is made clear in their contracts.
He shouted angrily at anyone within range.
the government's inability to provide basic services
Some families go without medical treatment because of their inability to pay.
They live in a remote area, inaccessible except by car.
The temple is now inaccessible to the public.
(figurative) The language of teenagers is often completely inaccessible to (= not understood by) adults.
an inaccurate statement
inaccurate information
All the maps we had were wildly inaccurate.
The article is full of inaccuracies.
The writer is guilty of bias and inaccuracy.
Some animals are inactive during the daytime.
politically inactive
The volcano has been inactive for 50 years.
an inactive oil well
an inactive drug/disease
periods of enforced inactivity and boredom
The inactivity of the government was deplorable.
the inadequacy of our resources
a feeling/sense of inadequacy
gross inadequacies in the data
He had to face up to his own inadequacies as a father.
inadequate supplies
The system is inadequate for the tasks it has to perform.
The food supplies are inadequate to meet the needs of the hungry.
I felt totally inadequate as a parent.
to be inadequately prepared/insured/funded
inadmissible evidence
We had inadvertently left without paying the bill.
an inadvertent omission
It is inadvisable to bring children on this trip.
the inalienable right to decide your own future
an inane remark
to grin inanely
A rock is an inanimate object.
A man was lying inanimate on the floor.
These regulations are inapplicable to international students.
inappropriate behaviour/language
It would be inappropriate for me to comment.
clothes inappropriate to the occasion
She was inappropriately dressed for a funeral.
an inarticulate reply
He was a very unusual musician inasmuch as he was totally deaf.
the innate ability to learn
He believes that humans are innately violent.
The accident was the result of a moment's inattention.
an inattentive pupil
inattentive to the needs of others
The whistle was inaudible to the human ear.
the President's inaugural address
the inaugural meeting of the geographical society
the inaugural flight of the space shuttle
the presidential inaugural in January
He will be inaugurated (as) President in January.
The new theatre was inaugurated by the mayor.
The moon landing inaugurated a new era in space exploration.
the President's inauguration
an inauguration speech
an inauspicious start
an inboard motor
inbound flights/passengers
an inbounds pass
I have a stack of emails in my inbox.
an inbred racehorse
His height gives him an inbuilt advantage over his opponent.
Texaco Inc.
The oil spill has caused incalculable damage to the environment.
incandescent lamps
incandescent white
an incandescent musical performance
She was incandescent with rage.
incapable of speech
The children seem to be totally incapable of working by themselves.
He was found lying in the road, drunk and incapable.
If people keep telling you you're incapable, you begin to lose confidence in yourself.
their incapacity to govern effectively
She returned to work after a long period of incapacity.
The leader seemed the devil incarnate.
one of the incarnations of Vishnu
He believed he had been a prince in a previous incarnation.
(figurative) I worked for her in her earlier incarnation (= her previous job) as a lawyer.
the incarnation of evil
an incendiary device/bomb/attack
incendiary remarks
The decision incensed the workforce.
They were incensed at the decision.
There is no incentive for people to save fuel.
tax incentives to encourage savings
ways to incentivize innovation
You need to incentivize your existing customers to stay with you.
The club has grown rapidly since its inception in 2007.
incessant noise/rain/chatter
incessant meetings
to talk incessantly
an incestuous relationship
The music industry is an incestuous business.
1.14 inches of rain fell last night.
She's a few inches taller than me.
He escaped death by an inch.
The car missed us by inches.
He was just inches away from scoring.
She crawled forward inch by inch.
We tried to negotiate a lower price but they wouldn't budge an inch.
She was within an inch of being killed.
They beat him (to) within an inch of his life (= very severely).
She moved forward, inching towards the rope.
I inched the car forward.
He inched his way through the narrow passage.
the incharge of the district hospital
inchoate ideas
an area with a high incidence of crime
the angle of incidence
His bad behaviour was just an isolated incident.
One particular incident sticks in my mind.
There was a shooting incident near here last night.
The demonstration passed off without incident.
a border/diplomatic incident
The discovery was incidental to their main research.
incidental music (= music used with a play or a film/movie to give atmosphere)
You may be able to get help with incidental expenses (= small costs that you get in connection with sth).
These risks are incidental to the work of a firefighter.
You'll need money for incidentals such as tips and taxis.
Incidentally, have you heard the news about Sue?
The information was only discovered incidentally.
high-temperature incineration plants
The article insinuated that he was having an affair with his friend's wife.
What are you trying to insinuate?
an insinuating smile
In the first act, the villain insinuates himself into the household of the man he intends to kill.
She insinuated her right hand under his arm.
signs of incipient unrest
Make a small incision below the ribs.
incisive comments/criticism/analysis
an incisive mind
an incisive performance
to incite crime/racial hatred/violence
They were accused of inciting the crowd to violence.
He incited the workforce to come out on strike.
incitement to racial hatred
transport not incl.
£29.53 inc. tax
Open 1 April to 31 October incl.
He did not show the slightest inclination to leave.
My natural inclination is to find a compromise.
She had neither the time nor the inclination to help them.
She lacked any inclination for housework.
He was a loner by nature and by inclination.
You must follow your own inclinations when choosing a career.
There is an inclination to treat geography as a less important subject.
an inclination of 45°
the angle of inclination
I incline to the view that we should take no action at this stage.
The government is more effective than we incline to think.
Lack of money inclines many young people towards crime.
His obvious sincerity inclined me to trust him.
The land inclined gently towards the shore.
a steep/slight incline
She was inclined to trust him.
He writes only when he feels inclined to.
There'll be time for a swim if you feel so inclined.
He's inclined to be lazy.
They'll be more inclined to listen if you don't shout.
I'm inclined to agree with you.
musically/academically inclined children
The tour included a visit to the Science Museum.
Does the price include tax?
Your duties include typing letters and answering the telephone.
You should include some examples in your essay.
We all went, me included.
Representatives from the country were included as observers at the conference.
I've got three days' holiday including New Year's Day.
Six people were killed in the riot, including a policeman.
It's £7.50, not including tax.
His inclusion in the team is in doubt.
There were some surprising inclusions in the list.
The fully inclusive fare for the trip is £52.
The rent is inclusive of water and heating.
We are offering free holidays for children aged two to eleven inclusive.
The castle is open daily from May to October inclusive.
Answer questions 8 to 12 inclusive.
The amusement park is open daily from May to October inclusive.
Answer questions 8 through 12.
The amusement park is open (from) May through October.
The park is open from 1 May to 31 October.
The party must adopt more inclusive strategies and a broader vision.
The word 'men' can be understood inclusively (= including men and women).
Movie stars often prefer to travel incognito.
an incognito visit
She broke off, incoherent with anger.
Rachel whispered something incoherent.
an incoherent policy
people on high/low incomes
a weekly disposable income (= the money that you have left to spend after tax, etc.) of £200
a rise in national income
They receive a proportion of their income from the sale of goods and services.
Tourism is a major source of income for the area.
higher/middle/lower income groups
The standard rate of income tax was cut to 23p in the pound.
the incoming government/president/administration
incoming flights
the incoming tide
incoming calls/mail
We are very sorry to have incommoded you.
The prisoner has been held incommunicado for more than a week.
the incomparable beauty of Lake Garda
The hours of the job are incompatible with family life.
These two objectives are mutually incompatible.
New computer software is often incompatible with older computers.
Those two blood groups are incompatible.
professional incompetence
police incompetence
He was dismissed for incompetence.
an incompetent teacher
his incompetent handling of the affair
The Prime Minister was attacked as incompetent to lead.
an incomplete set of figures
Spoken language contains many incomplete sentences.
The causes of the phenomenon are still incompletely understood.
Some application forms can be incomprehensible to ordinary people.
He found his son's actions totally incomprehensible.
Anna read the letter with incomprehension.
It is inconceivable that the minister was not aware of the problem.
inconclusive evidence/results/tests
inconclusive discussions
The last meeting had ended inconclusively.
Such traditional methods seem incongruous in our technical age.
She was struck by the incongruity of the situation.
incongruously dressed
inconsequential details
inconsequential chatter
We have spent a not inconsiderable amount of money on the project already.
inconsiderate behaviour
It was inconsiderate of you not to call.
The report is inconsistent with the financial statements.
The witnesses' statements were inconsistent.
Her behaviour was clearly inconsistent with her beliefs.
inconsistent results
Children find it difficult if a parent is inconsistent.
There is some inconsistency between the witnesses' evidence and their earlier statements.
I noticed a few minor inconsistencies in her argument.
They were inconsolable when their only child died.
to weep inconsolably
an incontestable right/fact
Many of our patients are incontinent.
incontrovertible evidence/proof
We apologize for the delay and regret any inconvenience it may have caused.
I have already been put to considerable inconvenience.
I can put up with minor inconveniences.
I hope that we haven't inconvenienced you.
an inconvenient time/place
incorrect information/spelling
His version of what happened is incorrect.
an incorrectly addressed letter
Her husband is an incorrigible flirt.
You're incorrigible!
an incredible story
It seemed incredible that she had been there a week already.
The hotel was incredible.
an incredible amount of work
increasingly difficult/important/popular
It is becoming increasingly clear that this problem will not be easily solved.
Increasingly, training is taking place in the office rather than outside it.
incredibly lucky/stupid/difficult/beautiful
Incredibly, she had no idea what was going on.
'Here?' said Kate, incredulous.
an incredulous look
a look of surprise and incredulity
He laughed incredulously.
a salary of £25 K with annual increments
incremental costs
They were afraid of answering the questions and incriminating themselves.
incriminating evidence
Can I introduce my wife?
He introduced me to a Greek girl at the party.
We've already been introduced.
Can I introduce myself? I'm Helen Robins.
'Kay, this is Steve.' 'Yes, I know—we've already introduced ourselves.'
Amy, do you know my friend Simon?
Have you two met? Jane, this is Matt.
Ted, this is Gwen —she's Porter's mother.
Can I introduce you to my colleague Professor Welsh?(formal)
No, I don't think we've met. I'm Harry.
Hello. Nice to meet you.
Hi. I'm Norman Miller.
The next programme will be introduced by Mary David.
May I introduce my first guest on the show tonight…
The first lecture introduces students to the main topics of the course.
It was she who first introduced the pleasures of sailing to me.
The company is introducing a new range of products this year.
The new law was introduced in 2007.
We want to introduce the latest technology into schools.
Vegetation patterns changed when goats were introduced to the island.
Bands from London introduced the craze for this kind of music.
A slow theme introduces the first movement.
to introduce a bill (before Parliament)
Particles of glass had been introduced into the baby food.
to inculcate a sense of responsibility in sb
to inculcate sb with a sense of responsibility
the present incumbent of the White House
the incumbent president
It was incumbent on them to attend.
She had incurred the wrath of her father by marrying without his consent.
You risk incurring bank charges if you exceed your overdraft limit.
an incurable disease/illness
She's an incurable optimist.
incurably ill/romantic
G Green (Ind.)
a national indaba on land reform
I don't care what he does. That's his indaba!
I am deeply indebted to my family for all their help.
a list of the fifteen most heavily indebted nations
an act of gross indecency (= a sexual act that is a criminal offence)
indecent conduct/photos
That skirt of hers is positively indecent.
They left the funeral with almost indecent haste (= too quickly).
He was charged with indecently assaulting five women.
After a moment's indecision, he said yes.
a weak and indecisive man
an indecisive battle
'Was he very angry?' 'Indeed he was.'
'Do you agree?' 'Indeed I do/Yes, indeed.'
'You said you'd help?' 'I did indeed—yes.'
It is indeed a remarkable achievement.
Thank you very much indeed!
I was very sad indeed to hear of your father's death.
I don't mind at all. Indeed, I would be delighted to help.
A ghost indeed! I've never heard anything so silly.
'Why did he do it?' 'Why indeed?'
an indefatigable defender of human rights
indefensible behaviour
The Prime Minister was accused of defending the indefensible.
She has that indefinable something that makes an actress a star.
The trial was postponed indefinitely.
She will be away for the indefinite future.
an indefinite science
The experience made an indelible impression on me.
Her unhappy childhood left an indelible mark.
an indelible marker
That day is stamped indelibly on my memory.
an indelicate question
an indemnity clause/fund/policy
indemnity insurance
The first line of each paragraph should be indented.
The horse's hooves left deep indentations in the mud.
an indented coastline
a colonial crisis which brought about independence
independence celebrations
the first elections since independence
He values his independence.
a woman's financial independence
Mozambique became independent in 1975.
an independent inquiry/witness
She went to a lawyer for some independent advice.
The police force should be independent of direct government control.
Two independent research bodies reached the same conclusions.
independent television/schools
the independent sector
Going away to college has made me much more independent.
She's a very independent-minded young woman.
Students should aim to become more independent of their teachers.
It was important to me to be financially independent of my parents.
a man of independent means (= with an income that he does not earn by working)
an independent candidate
The two departments work independently of each other.
It was the first time that she had lived independently.
The pain was indescribable.
indescribably beautiful/boring
plastic containers that are virtually indestructible
an indestructible bond of friendship
She was a tall woman of indeterminate age.
Look it up in the index.
Author and subject indexes are available on a library database.
the cost-of-living index
The Dow Jones index fell 15 points this morning.
stock-market indices
house price indexes
The number of new houses being built is a good index of a country's prosperity.
All publications are indexed by subject and title.
Record profits in the retail market indicate a boom in the economy.
Research indicates that eating habits are changing fast.
Kingston-upon-Thames, as the name indicates, is situated on the banks of the Thames.
Our results indicate how misleading it could be to rely on this method.
A red sky at night often indicates fine weather the next day.
Early results indicate that the government will be returned to power.
In his letter he indicated to us (that) he was willing to cooperate.
He indicated his willingness to cooperate.
Has she indicated yet whether she would like to be involved?
She took out a map and indicated the quickest route to us.
He indicated where the furniture was to go.
She indicated that I was to sit down.
The results are indicated in Table 2.
You are allowed 20kgs of baggage unless indicated otherwise on your ticket.
Please indicate clearly which colour you require.
When the temperature gauge indicates 90°F or more, turn off the engine.
Always indicate before moving into another lane.
He indicated left and then turned right.
She indicated that she was turning right.
A course of chemotherapy was indicated.
They gave no indication of how the work should be done.
He shows every indication (= clear signs) of wanting to accept the post.
There are clear indications that the economy is improving.
All the indications are that the deal will go ahead as planned.
Headaches may be a sign of stress.
They gave no indication as to how the work should be done.
Symptoms include a sore throat.
The rise in inflation was just one symptom of the poor state of the economy.
The dove is a universal symbol of peace.
the economic indicators
Chest pains can be a warning signal of heart problems.
Their failure to act is indicative of their lack of interest.
In 'Ben likes school', the verb 'like' is in the indicative.
The economic indicators are better than expected.
a depth indicator
The senator was indicted for murder.
She was indicted on charges of corruption.
an indictable offense
The poverty in our cities is a damning indictment of modern society.
This led to his indictment on allegations of conspiracy.
an indie publisher/newspaper
indie music
an indie band/record label
his total indifference to what people thought of him
What she said is a matter of complete indifference to me.
Their father treated them with indifference.
an indifference to the needs of others
The government cannot afford to be indifferent to public opinion.
an indifferent meal
The festival has the usual mixture of movies— good, bad and indifferent.
He shrugged indifferently.
the indigenous peoples/languages of the area
The kangaroo is indigenous to Australia.
an indigestible meal
an indignant letter/look
She was very indignant at the way she had been treated.
They were indignant that they hadn't been invited.
'I'm certainly not asking him!' she retorted indignantly.
The rise in train fares has aroused public indignation.
Joe quivered with indignation that Paul should speak to him like that.
Some benefits apply only to men, much to the indignation of working women.
to be full of righteous indignation (= the belief that you are right to be angry even though other people do not agree)
The chairman suffered the indignity of being refused admission to the meeting.
the daily indignities of imprisonment
an indigo sky
the indirect effects of the war
to find something out by indirect methods
The building collapsed as an indirect result of the heavy rain.
There would be some benefit, however indirect, to the state.
indirect costs (= costs that are not directly connected with making a product, for example training, heating, rent, etc.)
an indirect attack
an indirect route
The new law will affect us all, directly or indirectly.
In 'Give him the money', 'him' is the indirect object and 'money' is the direct object.
youthful indiscretions
He talked to the press in a moment of indiscretion.
indiscriminate attacks on motorists by youths throwing stones
Doctors have been criticized for their indiscriminate use of antibiotics.
She's always been indiscriminate in her choice of friends.
The soldiers fired indiscriminately into the crowd.
She made herself indispensable to the department.
A good dictionary is indispensable for learning a foreign language.
indisputable evidence
an indisputable fact
It is indisputable that the crime rate has been rising.
This painting is indisputably one of his finest works.
an indissoluble friendship
indissolubly linked
The male of the species is almost indistinguishable from the female.
His words were indistinguishable.
We interviewed each individual member of the community.
The minister refused to comment on individual cases.
respect for individual freedom
an individual pizza
a highly individual style of dress
The competition is open to both teams and individuals.
Treatment depends on the individual involved.
donations from private individuals (= ordinary people rather than companies, etc.)
She's grown into quite an individual.
an odd-looking individual
So this individual came up and demanded money.
to individualize children's learning
Capitalism stresses innovation, competition and individualism.
She's a complete individualist in her art.
an individualistic culture
His music is highly individualistic and may not appeal to everyone.
She expresses her individuality through her clothes.
individualized teaching
a highly individualized approach to management
individually wrapped chocolates
The manager spoke to them all individually.
The hotel has 100 individually designed bedrooms.
the Indo-Pakistan border
They had been indoctrinated from an early age with their parents' beliefs.
political/religious indoctrination
an indoor swimming pool
indoor games
the world indoor 200 metres champion
to go/stay indoors
Many herbs can be grown indoors.
He was, indubitably, the most suitable candidate.
indubitable proof
Nothing would induce me to take the job.
drugs which induce sleep
a drug-induced coma
an induced labour
We'll have to induce her.
financial inducements to mothers to stay at home
There is little inducement for them to work harder.
Government officials have been accused of accepting inducements (= bribes) from local businessmen.
They were inducted into the skills of magic.
an inductive argument
inductive reasoning
a theory derived inductively from the data
They went into town to indulge in some serious shopping.
I indulged myself with a long hot bath.
The inheritance enabled him to indulge his passion for art.
She did not believe in indulging the children with presents.
Her father had always indulged her every whim.
to lead a life of indulgence
Avoid excessive indulgence in sweets and canned drinks.
There is no limit to the indulgence he shows to his grandchildren.
The holiday was an extravagant indulgence.
They begged the audience's indulgence.
indulgent parents
an indulgent smile
to take an indulgent view of sth
to laugh indulgently
industrial unrest
industrial output
an industrial accident
They had made industrial quantities of food (= a lot).
industrial chemicals
an industrial town
an industrial society
the world's leading industrial nations
industrially advanced countries
industrial-strength coffee
The southern part of the country was slow to industrialize.
the rapid industrialization of Japan
an industrialized country
heavy/light industry
the needs of British industry
She got a job in industry.
the steel industry
the catering/tourist, etc. industry
We need to develop local industries.
(figurative) the Madonna industry (= the large number of people involved in making Madonna successful)
We were impressed by their industry.
an industrious student
ineffable joy
The new drug was ineffective.
ineffective management
The law proved ineffective in dealing with the problem.
an ineffectual teacher
an ineffectual attempt to reform the law
an inefficient heating system
inefficient government
an extremely inefficient secretary
inefficient use of time and energy
waste and inefficiency in government
inefficiencies in the system
ineligible for financial assistance
ineligible to vote
She was left feeling inept and inadequate.
an inept remark
the ineptitude of the police in handling the situation
inequality of opportunity
economic inequalities between different areas
racial inequality
inequitable distribution of wealth
He lay inert with half-closed eyes.
I can't seem to throw off this feeling of inertia.
the forces of institutional inertia in the school system
an inescapable fact
This leads to the inescapable conclusion that the two things are connected.
inessential luxuries
Few people had spare cash for inessentials.
The information he provided was of inestimable value.
It was an inevitable consequence of the decision.
It was inevitable that there would be job losses.
A rise in the interest rates seems inevitable.
the English and their inevitable cups of tea
You have to accept the inevitable.
The inevitable happened—I forgot my passport.
the inevitability of death
There was an inevitability about their defeat.
Inevitably, the press exaggerated the story.
Inevitably, it rained on the day of the wedding.
an inexact description
Economics is an inexact science.
inexcusable rudeness
an inexhaustible supply of good jokes
Her energy is inexhaustible.
the inexorable rise of crime
the inexorability of progress
events leading inexorably towards a crisis
It would be inexpedient to raise taxes further.
a relatively inexpensive hotel
His mistake was due to youth and inexperience.
inexperienced drivers/staff
inexperienced in modern methods
a child too young and inexperienced to recognize danger
inexplicable behaviour
For some inexplicable reason he gave up a fantastic job.
inexplicably delayed/absent
She inexplicably withdrew the offer.
inexpressible joy
an inextricable connection between the past and the present
Europe's foreign policy is inextricably linked with that of the US.
She had become inextricably involved in the campaign.
infallible advice
Doctors are not infallible.
an infallible method of memorizing things
papal infallibility
a day that will live in infamy
scenes of horror and infamy
a general who was infamous for his brutality
the most infamous concentration camp
(humorous) the infamous British sandwich
to die in infancy
a time when the cinema was still in its infancy
a nursery for infants under two
their infant son
She was seriously ill as an infant.
the infant mortality rate
Mozart was an infant prodigy (= a child with unusual ability).
an infant school
infant teachers
I've known her since we were in the infants (= at infant school).
infant formula (= milk for babies)
infant industries
infantry units
The infantry was/were guarding the bridge.
She was completely infatuated with him.
It isn't love, it's just a passing infatuation.
It is not possible to infect another person through kissing.
people infected with HIV
eggs infected with salmonella
She infected the children with her enthusiasm for music.
The wound from the dog bite had become infected.
an infected water supply
an infected PC
to be exposed to infection
to increase the risk of infection
an ear/throat, etc. infection
to spread an infection
Flu is highly infectious.
(figurative) infectious laughter
I'm still infectious.
to laugh infectiously
Much of the meaning must be inferred from the context.
It is reasonable to infer that the government knew about these deals.
Are you inferring (that) I'm not capable of doing the job?
to draw/make inferences from the data
The clear inference is that the universe is expanding.
If he is guilty then, by inference, so is his wife (= it is logical to think so, from the same evidence).
of inferior quality
inferior goods
to make sb feel inferior
Modern music is often considered inferior to that of the past.
an inferior officer
a sense of inferiority
social inferiority
Stop that infernal noise!
a blazing/raging inferno
an infertile couple
an infertility clinic
infertility treatment for couples
shark-infested waters
The kitchen was infested with ants.
an infestation of lice
marital infidelity
She could not forgive his infidelities.
Ronaldo came infield from the right to score.
political infighting within the party
The headquarters had been infiltrated by enemy spies.
Rebel forces were infiltrated into the country.
The CIA agents successfully infiltrated into the terrorist organizations.
Only a small amount of the rainwater actually infiltrates into the soil.
the infiltration of terrorists from across the border
the infiltration of rain into the soil
infill development
gravel infill
an infinite variety of plants
a teacher with infinite patience
(ironic) The company in its infinite wisdom decided to close the staff restaurant (= they thought it was a good thing to do, but nobody else agreed).
an infinite universe
Your English is infinitely better than my German.
Human beings are infinitely adaptable.
infinitesimal traces of poison
an infinitesimal risk
the infinity/infinities of space
The landscape seemed to stretch into infinity.
an infinity of stars
care for the elderly and infirm
We all fear disability or infirmity.
the infirmities of old age
His comments have inflamed teachers all over the country.
The situation was further inflamed by the arrival of the security forces.
inflammable material
inflammatory remarks
an inflatable mattress
Inflate your life jacket by pulling sharply on the cord.
The life jacket failed to inflate.
The principal effect of the demand for new houses was to inflate prices.
Food prices are no longer inflating at the same rate as last year.
inflated prices/salaries
He has an inflated sense of his own importance.
the fight against rising inflation
to control/curb inflation
to reduce/bring down inflation
a high/low rate of inflation
an inflation rate of 3%
Wage increases must be in line with inflation.
Inflation is currently running at 3%.
life jackets with an automatic inflation device
the inflationary effects of price rises
Our economy is in an inflationary spiral of wage and price increases (= a continuing situation in which an increase in one causes an increase in the other).
an inflected language/form/verb
an inflexible attitude/routine/system
He's completely inflexible on the subject.
They inflicted a humiliating defeat on the home team.
Heavy casualties were inflicted on the enemy.
(humorous) Do you have to inflict that music on us?
They surveyed the damage inflicted by the storm.
the infliction of pain
Sorry to inflict myself on you again like this!
She inflicted her nephew on them for the weekend.
an inflow pipe
to have/exert a strong influence on sb
the influence of the climate on agricultural production
What exactly is the influence of television on children?
Her parents no longer have any real influence over her.
She could probably exert her influence with the manager and get you a job.
He committed the crime under the influence of drugs.
cultural influences
Those friends are a bad influence on her.
His first music teacher was a major influence in his life.
She was charged with driving under the influence.
His writings have influenced the lives of millions.
to be strongly influenced by sth
Don't let me influence you either way.
The wording of questions can influence how people answer.
She was influenced to take up voluntary work by her teacher.
A number of social factors influence life expectancy.
a highly influential book
She is one of the most influential figures in local politics.
The committee was influential in formulating government policy on employment.
a massive/sudden influx of visitors
the influx of wealth into the region
Have you had any more info about the job yet?
an infosheet
We send all potential clients an infopack.
The article contained some useful infographics.
a piece of information
a source of information
to collect/gather/obtain/receive information
to provide/give/pass on information
For further information on the diet, write to us at this address.
Our information is that the police will shortly make an arrest.
This leaflet is produced for the information of (= to inform) our customers.
an information desk
He refused to comment before he had seen all the relevant information.
Could you tell me the best way to get to Paddington station, please?
Do you happen to know whether Amy Brown works here?
I wonder whether/if you can help me. I'm trying to find out which number to call for reservations.
the informational content of a book
the informational role of the media
Please inform us of any changes of address.
I have been reliably informed (= somebody I trust has told me) that the couple will marry next year.
'He's already left,' she informed us.
I have not been informed when the ceremony will take place.
We need time to inform ourselves thoroughly of the problem.
Religion informs every aspect of their lives.
He informed on his own brother.
an informal atmosphere
an informal arrangement/meeting/visit
Discussions are held on an informal basis within the department.
an informal expression
They told me informally (= not officially) that I had got the job.
to dress informally
His informants were middle-class professional women.
The talk was both informative and entertaining.
an informed critic
an informed choice/decision/guess/opinion
They are not fully informed about the changes.
Keep me informed of any developments.
infrared
minor infractions of EU regulations
infrared radiation
an infrared lamp
infrastructural development
her infrequent visits home
Muggings are relatively infrequent in this area.
This happens not infrequently (= often).
The material can be copied without infringing copyright.
They said that compulsory identity cards would infringe civil liberties.
She refused to answer questions that infringed on her private affairs.
copyright infringement
an infringement of liberty
Her silence infuriated him even more.
It infuriates me that she was not found guilty.
an infuriating child/delay
It is infuriating to talk to someone who just looks out of the window.
to smile infuriatingly
Infuriatingly, the shop had just closed.
Her novels are infused with sadness.
Politics infuses all aspects of our lives.
a cash infusion into the business
an infusion of new talent into science education
The company needs an infusion of new blood (= new employees with new ideas).
an ingenious device
ingenious ways of saving energy
an ingenious cook
She's very ingenious when it comes to finding excuses.
ingeniously designed
You're too ingenuous.
an ingenuous smile
It is ingenuous to suppose that money did not play a part in his decision.
an inglorious chapter in the nation's history
ingrained prejudices
The first part of his plan was to ingratiate himself with the members of the committee.
an ingratiating smile
Coconut is a basic ingredient for many curries.
Our skin cream contains only natural ingredients.
the essential ingredients for success
It has all the ingredients of a good mystery story.
some of the rare species that inhabit the area
the oldest inhabitant of the village
a town of 11 000 inhabitants
The island is no longer inhabited.
The building is now inhabited by birds.
She closed her eyes and inhaled deeply.
He inhaled deeply on another cigarette.
Local residents needed hospital treatment after inhaling fumes from the fire.
Hundreds of children were treated for smoke inhalation.
the meaning which inheres in words
the difficulties inherent in a study of this type
Violence is inherent in our society.
an inherent weakness in the design of the machine
an inherently unworkable system
She inherited a fortune from her father.
He has inherited his mother's patience.
an inherited disease
policies inherited from the previous administration
inheritable characteristics
She spent all her inheritance in a year.
The title passes by inheritance to the eldest son.
our cultural inheritance
Physical characteristics are determined by genetic inheritance.
We are the inheritors of a great cultural tradition.
A lack of oxygen may inhibit brain development in the unborn child.
The managing director's presence inhibited them from airing their problems.
Boys are often more inhibited than girls about discussing their problems.
The children were shy at first, but soon lost their inhibitions.
She had no inhibitions about making her opinions known.
the inhibition of growth
inhospitable terrain
an inhospitable climate
inhuman and degrading treatment
There was a strange inhuman sound.
inhumane treatment of animals/prisoners
man's inhumanity to man
the inhumanity of the system
an initial payment of £60 and ten instalments of £25
in the initial stages (= at the beginning) of the campaign
My initial reaction was to decline the offer.
'What initial is it, Mrs Owen?' 'It's J, J for Jane.'
John Fitzgerald Kennedy was often known by his initials JFK.
Just write your initials.
Please initial each page and sign in the space provided.
to initiate legal proceedings against sb
The government has initiated a programme of economic reform.
Many of them had been initiated into drug use at an early age.
Hundreds are initiated into the sect each year.
These policies are inimical to the interests of society.
an inimical stare
John related in his own inimitable way the story of his trip to Tibet.
the iniquity of racial prejudice
the iniquities of the criminal justice system
an iniquitous system/practice
an initiation ceremony
her initiation into the world of marketing
the initiation of criminal proceedings
a United Nations peace initiative
a government initiative to combat unemployment
You won't get much help. You'll have to use your initiative.
She did it on her own initiative (= without anyone telling her to do it).
to seize/lose the initiative
It was up to the US to take the initiative in repairing relations.
Initially, the system worked well.
The death toll was initially reported at around 250, but was later revised to 300.
Adrenaline was injected into the muscle.
She has been injecting herself with insulin since the age of 16.
The fruit is injected with chemicals to reduce decay.
Chemicals are injected into the fruit to reduce decay.
His comments injected a note of humour into the proceedings.
They are refusing to inject any more capital into the industry.
to give sb an injection
He was treated with penicillin injections.
An anaesthetic was administered by injection.
daily injections of insulin
The theatre faces closure unless it gets an urgent cash injection.
a fuel injection system
an injudicious remark
serious injury/injuries
minor injuries
to sustain injuries/an injury
to escape injury
injury to the head
a head injury
Two players are out of the team because of injury.
There were no injuries in the crash (= no people injured).
(BrE, informal) Don't do that. You'll do yourself an injury (= hurt yourself).
Damages may be awarded for emotional injury.
to seek/obtain an injunction
The court granted an injunction against the defendants.
He injured his knee playing hockey.
Three people were killed and five injured in the crash.
This could seriously injure the company's reputation.
an injured leg
Luckily, she isn't injured.
Carter is playing in place of the injured O'Reilly.
Ambulances took the injured to a nearby hospital.
an injured look/tone
injured pride
fighting against poverty and injustice
a burning sense of injustice
social injustice
She was enraged at the injustice of the remark.
The report exposes the injustices of the system.
written in ink
a pen and ink drawing
different coloured inks
The group has just inked a $10 million deal.
(figurative) The date for the presentation should have been inked in (= made definite) by now.
the inky blackness of the cellar
inky fingers
He had no inkling of what was going on.
The first inkling I had that something was wrong was when I found the front door wide open.
an inlaid wooden box
a box inlaid with gold
The town lies a few kilometres inland.
We travelled further inland the next day.
inland areas
inland lakes
The lid of the box had been inlaid with silver.
The table was decorated with gold inlay.
a fuel inlet
Holiday Inn
an inner courtyard
inner London
the inner ear
She doesn't reveal much of her inner self.
There are huge problems in our inner cities.
an inner-city area/school
I could not express my innermost feelings to anyone.
the innermost shrine of the temple
Cold, innit?
You got it, innit?
She protested her innocence (= said repeatedly that she was innocent).
This new evidence will prove their innocence.
I asked if she was married in all innocence (= without knowing it was likely to offend or upset her).
Children lose their innocence as they grow older.
They have imprisoned an innocent man.
She was found innocent of any crime.
He was the innocent party (= person) in the breakdown of the marriage.
an innocent bystander
innocent victims of a bomb blast
an innocent young child
It was all innocent fun.
It was a perfectly innocent remark.
'Oh, Sue went too, did she?' I asked innocently (= pretending I did not know that this was important).
It seemed a perfectly innocuous remark.
an innocuous substance
It all began innocuously enough with an enquiry from a new customer.
We must constantly adapt and innovate to ensure success in a growing market.
to innovate new products
an age of technological innovation
recent innovations in steel-making technology
There will be a prize for the most innovative design.
innuendoes about her private life
The song is full of sexual innuendo.
Innumerable books have been written on the subject.
We have been inundated with offers of help.
a shy, inoffensive young man
an inoperable brain tumour
The policy was thought to be inoperable.
They arrived at an inopportune moment.
inordinately high prices
inorganic fertilizers
Come into the house.
She dived into the water.
He threw the letter into the fire.
(figurative) She turned and walked off into the night.
Speak clearly into the microphone.
Driving into the sun, we had to shade our eyes.
The truck crashed into a parked car.
She carried on working late into the night.
He didn't get married until he was well into his forties.
The fruit can be made into jam.
Can you translate this passage into German?
They came into power in 2008.
She was sliding into depression.
He was shocked into a confession of guilt.
an inquiry into safety procedures
3 into 24 is 8.
an inspired performance
an inspired choice/guess (= one that is right but based on feelings rather than knowledge)
politically-inspired killings
Her specialist input to the discussions has been very useful.
I'd appreciate your input on this.
There has been a big input of resources into the project from industry.
data input
This program accepts input from most word processors.
to input text/data/figures
An inquest was held to discover the cause of death.
a coroner's inquest into his death
An inquest was held on the team's poor performance.
Don't be so inquisitive. It's none of your business!
an inquisitive mind
He questioned her in a cold inquisitorial voice.
This deal is their first major inroad into the American market.
Tax rises have made some inroads into the country's national debt.
an inrush of air/water
Doctors certified him as insane.
The prisoners were slowly going insane.
a hospital for the insane
I must have been insane to agree to the idea.
This job is driving me insane (= making me feel very angry).
He is insanely jealous.
He was found not guilty, by reason of insanity.
It would be sheer insanity to attempt the trip in such bad weather.
an insatiable appetite/curiosity/thirst
There seems to be an insatiable demand for more powerful computers.
His name was inscribed on the trophy.
The trophy was inscribed with his name.
She signed the book and inscribed the words 'with grateful thanks' on it.
insect species
insect repellent (= a chemical that keeps insects away)
an insect bite
He's very insecure about his appearance.
She felt nervous and insecure.
Jobs nowadays are much more insecure than they were ten years ago.
As an artist he was always financially insecure.
Insecure doors and windows (= for example, without good locks) make life easy for burglars.
feelings of insecurity
job insecurity
We all have our fears and insecurities.
The cows are artificially inseminated.
insensibility to pain
insensible to pain/cold
They were not insensible of the risks.
He drank himself insensible.
an insensitive remark
She's completely insensitive to my feelings.
The government seems totally insensitive to the mood of the country.
insensitive to pain/cold
He seems completely insensitive to criticism.
Our economic fortunes are inseparable from those of Europe.
Our lives were inseparably linked.
Insert coins into the slot and press for a ticket.
They inserted a tube in his mouth to help him breathe.
Position the cursor where you want to insert a word.
Later, he inserted another paragraph into his will.
an 8-page insert on the new car models
These inserts fit inside any style of shoe.
An examination is carried out before the insertion of the tube.
the insertion of an extra paragraph
For the Shetland Islands, see inset.
The windows have beautiful stained glass insets.
The tables were inset with ceramic tiles.
Ceramic tiles were inset into the tables.
an inshore breeze
an inshore lifeboat (= that stays close to the land)
The boat came inshore (= towards the land).
Go inside the house.
Inside the box was a gold watch.
For years we had little knowledge of what life was like inside China.
You'll feel better with a good meal inside you.
(figurative) Inside most of us is a small child screaming for attention.
The job is unlikely to be finished inside (of) a year
She shook it to make sure there was nothing inside.
We had to move inside (= indoors) when it started to rain.
(figurative) I pretended not to care but I was screaming inside.
He was sentenced to three years inside.
The inside of the box was blue.
The door was locked from the inside.
The shell is smooth on the inside.
the insides of the windows
He tried to overtake on the inside.
The French runner is coming up fast on the inside.
She was so nervous, her insides were like jelly.
You've got your sweater on inside out.
Turn the bag inside out and let it dry.
The thieves must have had someone on the inside helping them.
The burglars had turned the house inside out.
The new manager turned the old systems inside out.
the inside pages of a newspaper
an inside pocket
(BrE) I was driving in the inside lane (= the part nearest the edge, not the middle of the road).
inside information
Any newspaper would pay big money to get the inside story on her marriage.
The robbery appeared to have been an inside job.
The situation was described by one insider as 'absolute chaos'.
the insidious effects of polluted water supplies
a writer of great insight
With a flash of insight I realized what the dream meant.
The book gives us fascinating insights into life in Mexico.
the royal insignia
His uniform bore the insignia of a captain.
an insignificant difference
The levels of chemicals in the river are not insignificant.
He made her feel insignificant and stupid.
Her own problems paled into insignificance beside this terrible news.
an insincere smile
She accused him of insincerity.
She resented the insinuation that she was too old for the job.
a cup of insipid coffee
After an hour of insipid conversation, I left.
I didn't really want to go but he insisted.
'Please come with us.' 'Very well then, if you insist.'
(formal) She insisted on his/him wearing a suit.
He insists that she come.
(BrE also ) He insists that she should come.
He insisted on his innocence.
He insisted (that) he was innocent.
'It's true,' she insisted.
We insisted on a refund of the full amount.
They insisted upon being given every detail of the case.
They insist on playing their music late at night.
their insistence on strict standards of behaviour
At her insistence, the matter was dropped.
They were insistent on having a contract for the work.
Why are you so insistent that we leave tonight?
She didn't want to go but her brother was insistent.
insistent demands
the insistent ringing of the telephone
an educational/financial, etc. institution
the Smithsonian Institution
a mental institution
We want this to be like a home, not an institution.
the institution of marriage
the institution of new safety procedures
You must know him—he's an institution around here!
an insolent child/smile
Her insolence cost her her job.
The company has been declared insolvent.
to suffer from insomnia
She hid her worries behind an air of insouciance.
Chief Insp (Paul) King
The teacher walked around inspecting their work.
The plants are regularly inspected for disease.
Public health officials were called in to inspect the premises.
Regular inspections are carried out at the prison.
The head went on a tour of inspection of all the classrooms.
The documents are available for inspection.
On closer inspection, the notes proved to be forgeries.
Engineers carried out a thorough inspection of the track.
a school/health/safety, etc. inspector
Inspector Maggie Forbes
The schools inspectorate has/have published a report on science teaching.
Dreams can be a rich source of inspiration for an artist.
Both poets drew their inspiration from the countryside.
Looking for inspiration for a new dessert? Try this recipe.
He says my sister was the inspiration for his heroine.
Clark was the inspiration behind Saturday's victory.
Her charity work is an inspiration to us all.
He had an inspiration: he'd give her a dog for her birthday.
It came to me in a flash of inspiration.
an inspirational leader
The actors inspired the kids with their enthusiasm.
The actors' enthusiasm inspired the kids.
His superb play inspired the team to a thrilling 5–0 win.
By visiting schools, the actors hope to inspire children to put on their own productions.
The choice of decor was inspired by a trip to India.
Her work didn't exactly inspire me with confidence.
As a general, he inspired great loyalty in his troops.
an inspiring teacher
(informal) The book is less than inspiring.
political and economic instability
mental/emotional instability
Lee was ill so I went instead.
He didn't reply. Instead, he turned on his heel and left the room.
She said nothing, preferring instead to save her comments till later.
installation costs
Installation of the new system will take several days.
a heating installation
a military installation
the installation of the new vice chancellor
He's getting a phone installed tomorrow.
The hotel chain has recently installed a new booking system.
I'll need some help installing the software.
Have you got Word installed on your computer?
He was installed as President last May.
We installed ourselves in the front row.
The final instalment on the loan is due next week.
They were unable to keep up (= continue to pay regularly) the instalments.
In most instances, there will be no need for further treatment.
I would normally suggest taking time off work, but in this instance I'm not sure that would do any good.
She took an instant dislike to me.
This account gives you instant access to your money.
The show was an instant success.
instant coffee
I'll be back in an instant.
Just for an instant I thought he was going to refuse.
At that (very) instant, the door opened.
I recognized her the instant (that) (= as soon as) I saw her.
Come here this instant!(= immediately)
to send an instant message
Word spreads by email and instant message.
She spent the most of the evening instant-messaging.
He instant-messaged me last night.
Can you instant-message me the news?
an instantaneous response
Death was almost instantaneous.
Her voice is instantly recognizable.
The driver was killed instantly.
We just had soup instead of a full meal.
Now I can walk to work instead of going by car.
The government has instigated a programme of economic reform.
They were accused of instigating racial violence.
An appeal fund was launched at the instigation of the President.
It was done at his instigation.
the instigators of the riots
to instil confidence/discipline/fear into sb
maternal instincts
Children do not know by instinct the difference between right and wrong.
His first instinct was to run away.
Horses have a well-developed instinct for fear.
Even at school, he showed he had an instinct for (= was naturally good at) business.
Her instincts had been right.
instinctive knowledge
She's an instinctive player.
My instinctive reaction was to deny everything.
He knew instinctively that something was wrong.
a research institute
the Institute of Chartered Accountants
institutes of higher education
to institute criminal proceedings against sb
The new management intends to institute a number of changes.
institutional investors
institutional care
institutionalized racism
institutionalized patients
You will be instructed where to go as soon as the plane is ready.
She arrived at 10 o'clock as instructed.
He instructed that a wall be built around the city.
(BrE also ) He instructed that a wall should be built around the city.
'Put it there,' she instructed (them).
All our staff have been instructed in sign language.
We have been instructed that a decision will not be made before the end of the week.
a driving instructor
Follow the instructions on the packet carefully.
Always read the instructions before you start.
The plant comes with full instructions on how to care for it.
to ignore/carry out sb's instructions
I'm under instructions to keep my speech short.
religious instruction
an instruction book/manual
instructional materials
a most instructive experience
It is instructive to see how other countries are tackling the problem.
surgical/optical/precision, etc. instruments
instruments of torture
Is he learning an instrument?
brass/stringed, etc. instruments
the flight instruments
the instrument panel
The law is not the best instrument for dealing with family matters.
an instrument of change
an instrument of fate
He was instrumental in bringing about an end to the conflict.
instrumental music
an insubstantial construction of wood and glue
an insubstantial argument
as insubstantial as a shadow
insufferably hot
insufficient time
His salary is insufficient to meet his needs.
cardiac insufficiency
The British are often accused of being insular.
the coastal and insular areas
Home owners are being encouraged to insulate their homes to save energy.
insulated wires
a well-insulated house
insulating materials
Better insulation of your home will help to reduce heating bills.
foam insulation
insulin-dependent diabetes
I have never been so insulted in my life!
She felt insulted by the low offer.
The crowd were shouting insults at the police.
His comments were seen as an insult to the president.
The questions were an insult to our intelligence (= too easy).
insulting remarks
She was really insulting to me.
life/car/travel/household, etc. insurance
to have adequate insurance cover
to take out insurance against fire and theft
insurance premiums (= the regular payments made for insurance)
Can you claim for the loss on your insurance?
an insurance broker/company
He works in insurance.
to pay insurance on your house
When her husband died, she received £50 000 in insurance.
At that time people had large families as an insurance against some children dying.
a travel insurance policy
(figurative) Always make a backup disk as an insurance policy.
The painting is insured for $1 million.
Luckily he had insured himself against long-term illness.
(figurative) Having a lot of children is a way of insuring themselves against loneliness in old age.
We strongly recommend insuring against sickness or injury.
The company can refuse to insure a property that does not have window locks.
Was the vehicle insured?
You're not insured to drive our car.
It isn't insured against theft.
Most of the house remains intact even after two hundred years.
He emerged from the trial with his reputation intact.
high fluid intake
to reduce your daily intake of salt
the annual student intake
the air/fuel intake
a sharp intake of breath
The old building had an intangible air of sadness about it.
The benefits are intangible.
intangible assets/property
intangibles such as staff morale and goodwill
I wish my mother would stop interfering and let me make my own decisions.
The police are very unwilling to interfere in family problems.
She never allows her personal feelings to interfere with her work.
I'd get fired if he found out I'd been interfering with his records.
Music is an integral part of the school's curriculum.
Practical experience is integral to the course.
All models have an integral CD player.
an integral system
These programs will integrate with your existing software.
These programs can be integrated with your existing software.
They have not made any effort to integrate with the local community.
The policy is to integrate children with special needs into ordinary schools.
an integrated transport system (= including buses, trains, taxis, etc.)
an integrated school (= attended by students of all races and religions)
The aim is to promote closer economic integration.
His music is an integration of tradition and new technology.
racial integration in schools
personal/professional/artistic integrity
to behave with integrity
to respect the territorial integrity of the nation
an intellectual novel
She's very intellectual.
intellectually challenging
a person of high/average/low intelligence
He didn't even have the intelligence to call for an ambulance.
intelligence reports
the US Central Intelligence Agency
a highly intelligent child
to ask an intelligent question
a search for intelligent life on other planets
intelligent software/systems
a man of considerable intellect
She was one of the most formidable intellects of her time.
intellectual property rights
the legal battle about the teaching of intelligent design as science
His lecture was readily intelligible to all the students.
intemperate language
We finished later than we had intended.
I fully intended (= definitely intended) to pay for the damage.
The writer clearly intends his readers to identify with the main character.
(BrE) I don't intend staying long.
The company intends a slow-down in expansion.
He intended her no harm (= it was not his plan to harm her).
It is intended that production will start next month.
We intend that production will start next month.
What exactly did you intend by that remark?
He intended it as a joke.
the intended purpose
the intended audience
The bullet missed its intended target.
The book is intended for children.
The notes are intended as an introduction to the course.
This list is not intended to be a complete catalogue.
intense heat/cold/pain
The President is under intense pressure to resign.
the intense blue of her eyes
intense interest/pleasure/desire/anger
intense competition
It was a period of intense activity.
an intense look
He's very intense about everything.
She disliked him intensely.
Violence intensified during the night.
The opposition leader has intensified his attacks on the government.
intensity of light/sound/colour
intensity of feeling/concentration/relief
He was watching her with an intensity that was unnerving.
The storm resumed with even greater intensity.
varying intensities of natural light
an intensive language course
two weeks of intensive training
intensive diplomatic negotiations
His disappearance has been the subject of intensive investigation.
Traditionally reared animals grow more slowly than those reared under intensive farming conditions.
intensive agriculture
This case has been intensively studied.
intensively farmed land
She needed intensive care for several days.
intensive care patients/beds
The baby was in intensive care for 48 hours.
an intent gaze/look
His eyes were suddenly intent.
They were intent on murder.
Are you intent upon destroying my reputation?
I was so intent on my work that I didn't notice the time.
She looked at him intently.
She denies possessing the drug with intent to supply.
a letter/statement of intent
His intent is clearly not to placate his critics.
By 1981 the docks had, to all intents and purposes, closed.
The two items are, to all intents and purposes, identical.
He left England with the intention of travelling in Africa.
I have every intention of paying her back what I owe her.
He has announced his intention to retire.
It was not my intention that she should suffer.
The original intention was to devote three months to the project.
She's full of good intentions but they rarely work out.
I did it with the best (of) intentions (= meaning to help), but I only succeeded in annoying them.
I'm sorry I left you off the list—it wasn't intentional.
She would never intentionally hurt anyone.
I kept my statement intentionally vague.
interface
interaction
international
Teachers have a limited amount of time to interact with each child.
Perfume interacts with the skin's natural chemicals.
the interaction between performers and their audience
the interaction of bacteria with the body's natural chemistry
The school believes in interactive teaching methods.
interactive systems/video
Nearly every classroom has an interactive whiteboard.
They interceded with the authorities on behalf of the detainees.
the intercession of a priest
Reporters intercepted him as he tried to leave the hotel.
The letter was intercepted.
the interception of enemy radio signals
The two words are virtually interchangeable (= have almost the same meaning).
The V8 engines are all interchangeable with each other.
These terms are used interchangeably.
a continuous interchange of ideas
electronic data interchange
to interchange the front and rear tyres of a car
to interchange the front tyres with the rear ones
The front and rear tyres interchange (= can be exchanged).
an intercity rail service
intercity travel
intercollegiate football
to announce sth over the intercom
They called him on the intercom.
Bad housing is interconnected with debt and poverty.
Bad housing, debt and poverty are interconnected.
separate bedrooms that interconnect
interconnections between different parts of the brain
intercontinental flights/missiles/travel/trade
intercostal muscles
The prosecution stated that intercourse had occurred on several occasions.
anal intercourse
the importance of social intercourse between different age groups
Scenes of city life were intercut with interviews with local people.
interdependent economies/organizations/relationships
The world is becoming increasingly interdependent.
the Customs Service's drug interdiction programs
interdisciplinary research
an interdisciplinary approach
a discussion of how the mind and body interrelate
a discussion of how the mind interrelates with the body
a discussion of how the mind and body are interrelated
a number of interrelated problems
to feel/have/show/express (an) interest in sth
Do your parents take an interest in your friends?
By that time I had lost (all) interest in the idea.
I watched with interest.
As a matter of interest (= I'd like to know), what time did the party finish?
Just out of interest, how much did it cost?
There are many places of interest near the city.
The subject is of no interest to me at all.
These plants will add interest to your garden in winter.
These documents are of great historical interest.
to be of cultural/scientific interest
Her main interests are music and tennis.
He was a man of wide interests outside his work.
to pay interest on a loan
The money was repaid with interest.
interest charges/payments
Interest rates have risen by 1%.
high rates of interest
to promote/protect/safeguard sb's interests
She was acting entirely in her own interests.
These reforms were in the best interests of local government.
It is in the public interest that these facts are made known.
She has business interests in France.
American interests in Europe (= money invested in European countries)
I should, at this point, declare my interest.
Organizations have an interest in ensuring that employee motivation is high.
powerful farming interests
relationships between local government and business interests
Politics doesn't interest me.
She has always interested herself in charity work.
It may interest you to know that Andy didn't accept the job.
Could I interest you in this model, Sir?
a special interest group of US lumber producers
an interest-free loan
interest-free credit
I'm very interested in history.
Anyone interested in joining the club should contact us at the address below.
We would be interested to hear your views on this subject.
an interested audience
There's a talk on Italian art—are you interested (= would you like to go)?
He sounded genuinely interested.
As an interested party, I was not allowed to vote.
Interested groups will be given three months to give their views on the new development.
an interesting question/point/example
interesting people/places/work
It would be interesting to know what he really believed.
It is particularly interesting to compare the two versions.
I find it interesting that she claims not to know him.
Can't we do something more interesting?
Her account makes interesting reading.
Interestingly, there are very few recorded cases of such attacks.
What is surprising about these results is that boys are more likely to be left-handed than girls.
Surprisingly, boys are more likely to be left-handed than girls.
Interestingly, even when both parents are left-handed, there is still only a 26% chance of their children being left-handed.
One of the most interesting findings is that only 2% of the left-handers surveyed have two left-handed parents.
It is interesting to note that people are more likely to be left-handed if their mother is left-handed than if their father is.
The most striking feature of these results is that left-handed mothers are more likely to have left-handed children.
the user interface
the interface between computer and printer
the interface between manufacturing and sales
The new system interfaces with existing telephone equipment.
an interfaith memorial service
They resent foreign interference in the internal affairs of their country.
She's an interfering busybody!
intergalactic space/travel
an intergovernmental conference
an interim government/measure/report
The vice-president took power in the interim period before the election.
interim figures/profits/results
the interior of a building/a car
an expedition into the interior of Australia
the Department/Minister of the Interior
interior walls
an interior decoration scheme
'You're wrong,' interjected Susan.
Her hair was interlaced with ribbons and flowers.
interlacing branches
interlingual communication
The two processes are interlinked.
a series of short interlinking stories
Once the parts are interlocked, the structure stands firm.
interlocking shapes/systems/pieces
a romantic interlude (= a short romantic relationship)
Apart from a brief interlude of peace, the war lasted nine years.
There will now be a short interlude.
a musical interlude
Blacks and whites often intermarried (= married each other).
They were not forbidden to intermarry with the local people.
cousins who intermarry
intermarriage between blacks and whites
Financial institutions act as intermediaries between lenders and borrowers.
All talks have so far been conducted through an intermediary.
to play an intermediary role in the dispute
an intermediate stage/step in a process
Liquid crystals are considered to be intermediate between liquid and solid.
an intermediate skier/student, etc.
an intermediate coursebook
pre-/upper-intermediate classes
intermeshing cogs
an interminable speech/wait/discussion
The drive seemed interminable.
The meeting dragged on interminably.
The book intermingles fact with fiction.
The book intermingles fact and fiction.
tourists and local people intermingling in the market square
Coffee was served during the intermission.
(NAmE) After intermission, the second band played.
This state of affairs lasted without intermission for a hundred years.
intermittent bursts of applause
intermittent showers
Protests continued intermittently throughout November.
Grass fields were intermixed with areas of woodland.
Jeff played intramural basketball in high school.
the internment of suspected terrorists
internment camps
a summer intern at a law firm
the internal structure of a building
internal doors
internal organs/injuries
The medicine is not for internal use.
an internal inquiry
the internal workings of government
internal divisions within the company
internal affairs/trade/markets
an internal flight (= within a country)
a theory which lacks internal consistency (= whose parts are not in agreement with each other)
Some photos contain internal evidence (= fashions, transport, etc.) that may help to date them.
internal rage
internally connected rooms
The new posts were only advertised internally.
international trade/law/sport
an international airport/school/company
international relations
a pianist with an international reputation
internationally famous
the France-Scotland rugby international
a former swimming international
an English course for internationals
a Scottish rugby internationalist
internecine struggles/warfare/feuds
I looked it up on the Internet.
You can buy our goods over the Internet.
All the rooms have access to the Internet/Internet access.
an Internet service provider (= a company that provides you with an Internet connection and services such as email, etc.)
an internship at a television station
interpersonal skills
The students were asked to interpret the poem.
I didn't know whether to interpret her silence as acceptance or refusal.
The data can be interpreted in many different ways.
She couldn't speak much English so her children had to interpret for her.
He interpreted the role with a lot of humour.
interpretable data
Her evidence suggests a different interpretation of the events.
It is not possible for everyone to put their own interpretation on the law.
Dreams are open to interpretation (= they can be explained in different ways).
a modern interpretation of 'King Lear'
interplanetary travel
the interplay between politics and the environment
the subtle interplay of colours
'But why?' he interpolated.
The lines were interpolated into the manuscript at a later date.
'Just a minute,' Charles interposed. 'How do you know?'
He quickly interposed himself between Mel and the doorway.
an interpretative problem
an interpretative exhibition
Speaking through an interpreter, the President said that the talks were going well.
a sign language interpreter (= a person who translates what sb is saying into sign language for deaf people)
She is one of the finest interpreters of Debussy's music.
interracial marriage
He was interrogated by the police for over 12 hours.
She hated her parents' endless interrogations about where she'd been.
an interrogative gesture/remark/sentence
interrogative pronouns/determiners/adverbs (= for example, who, which and why )
an interrogatory stare
Sorry to interrupt, but there's someone to see you.
Would you mind not interrupting with questions all the time?
I hope I'm not interrupting you.
They were interrupted by a knock at the door.
'I have a question,' she interrupted.
Sorry to interrupt, but I have to disagree with that.
Could I just say something here?
If I could, let me stop you there for a moment and go back to your previous point.
Actually, we seem to have strayed a bit from the topic. Can we go back to the first point?
Just a moment, Sue. Can we hear what Jack has to say on this?
May I interrupt you there? I don't think that's true.(formal)
I'm sorry, but we're running short on time. Can you please summarize very quickly so we can finish up?(formal)
I appreciate your enthusiasm on this topic, but I'm afraid we have a couple more people to hear from. (formal)
Could you two please discuss that issue privately after the meeting? We have several more items to cover and need to move on at this point. (formal)
I'm sorry, I really have to stop you there. We've run out of time.(formal)
Let's save that conversation for another time.
The game was interrupted several times by rain.
We interrupt this programme to bring you an important news bulletin.
The birth of her son was a minor interruption to her career.
an interruption to the power supply
I managed to work for two hours without interruption.
He ignored her interruptions.
She spoke for 20 minutes without interruption.
a pattern of intersecting streets
The lines intersect at right angles.
The path intersected with a busy road.
The landscape is intersected with spectacular gorges.
Traffic lights have been placed at all major intersections.
Lectures will be interspersed with practical demonstrations.
interstate commerce
interstitial cells
intertwining branches
a necklace of rubies intertwined with pearls
Their political careers had become closely intertwined.
The interval between major earthquakes might be 200 years.
There will be an interval of 20 minutes after the second act.
She's delirious, but has lucid intervals.
(BrE) The day should be mainly dry with sunny intervals.
an interval of one octave
She might have been killed if the neighbours hadn't intervened.
The President intervened personally in the crisis.
'But,' she intervened, 'what about the others?'
They were planning to get married and then the war intervened.
I saw nothing of her during the years that intervened.
Little had changed in the intervening years.
calls for government intervention to save the steel industry
In the second group of states, direct intervention in the economy was limited.
armed/military intervention
NATO intervention in the troubled region
a medical/surgical intervention
Her daughters staged an intervention.
interventionist policies
to be called for (an) interview
He has an interview next week for the manager's job.
a television/radio/newspaper interview
an interview with the new Governor
to give an interview (= to agree to answer questions)
Yesterday, in an interview on German television, the minister denied the reports.
to conduct an interview (= to ask sb questions in public)
The interview was published in all the papers.
an interview with the careers adviser
Which post are you being interviewed for?
We interviewed ten people for the job.
The website gives you tips on interviewing for colleges.
(BrE, NAmE) If you don't interview well you are unlikely to get the job.
Next week, I will be interviewing Spielberg about his latest movie.
The Prime Minister declined to be interviewed.
The police are waiting to interview the injured man.
The research involves in-depth interviewing.
interviewing techniques
the interwar years/period
The blue fabric was interwoven with red and gold thread.
(figurative) The problems are inextricably interwoven (= very closely connected).
He did not have the intestinal fortitude to implement the changes.
intimate friends
We're not on intimate terms with our neighbours.
The article revealed intimate details about his family life.
the most intimate parts of her body
an intimate restaurant
He knew an intimate little bar where they would not be disturbed.
an intimate knowledge of the English countryside
an intimate connection between class and educational success
intimately connected/linked/related
an area of the country that he knew intimately
She was intimately involved in the project.
They touched each other intimately (= in a sexual way).
He has already intimated to us his intention to retire.
He has already intimated (that) he intends to retire.
There was no intimation from his doctor that his condition was serious.
They were accused of intimidating people into voting for them.
She refused to be intimidated by their threats.
the intimidation of witnesses
We try to make sure children don't feel intimidated on their first day at school.
an intimidating manner
This kind of questioning can be very intimidating to children.
an intolerable burden/situation
The heat was intolerable.
intolerably hot
recipes for people who are gluten intolerant
religious intolerance
an intolerance to dairy products
intonation patterns
In English, some questions have a rising intonation.
The priest intoned the final prayer.
(NAmE) He was arrested for DWI (= driving while intoxicated ).
intoxicated with success
Power can be intoxicating.
intravenous
intra-departmental (= within a department)
intramuscular pain
an intramuscular injection
The verb 'die' as in 'He died suddenly', is intransitive.
The verb is being used intransitively.
intravenous fluids
an intravenous injection
an intravenous drug user
an intrepid explorer
the intricacies of economic policy
the intricacy of the design
intricate patterns
an intricate network of loyalties and relationships
intricately carved
You've really intrigued me—tell me more!
political intrigue
The young heroine steps into a web of intrigue in the academic world.
I soon learnt about all the intrigues and scandals that went on in the little town.
He was intrigued by her story.
I'm intrigued to know what you thought of the movie.
These discoveries raise intriguing questions.
an intriguing possibility
He found her intriguing.
the intrinsic value of education
These tasks were repetitive, lengthy and lacking any intrinsic interest.
Small local shops are intrinsic to the town's character.
There is nothing intrinsically wrong with the idea (= it is good in itself but there may be outside circumstances which mean it is not suitable).
the introduction of new manufacturing methods
the introduction of compulsory military service
the 1 000th anniversary of the introduction of Christianity to Russia
The book lists plants suitable for the British flower garden, among them many new introductions.
Introductions were made and the conversation started to flow.
Our speaker today needs no introduction (= is already well known).
a letter of introduction (= a letter which tells sb who you are, written by sb who knows both you and the person reading the letter)
This album was my first introduction to modern jazz.
a brief introduction
a book with an excellent introduction and notes
By way of introduction, let me give you the background to the story.
'An Introduction to Astronomy'
It's a useful introduction to an extremely complex subject.
an eight-bar introduction
introductory chapters/paragraphs/remarks
introductory courses/lectures
a special introductory price of just $10
This introductory offer is for three days only.
I'm sorry to intrude, but I need to talk to someone.
legislation to stop newspapers from intruding on people's private lives
The sound of the telephone intruded into his dreams.
The people in the room seemed to regard her as an unwelcome intruder.
They claim the noise from the new airport is an intrusion on their lives.
This was another example of press intrusion into the affairs of the royals.
She apologized for the intrusion but said she had an urgent message.
intrusive questions
The constant presence of the media was very intrusive.
They managed to intubate the victim inside the wrecked car.
to intubate the trachea
We made the decision not to intubate.
She intuited that something was badly wrong.
I had an intuition that something awful was about to happen.
He had an intuitive sense of what the reader wanted.
Intuitively, she knew that he was lying.
Troops invaded on August 9th that year.
When did the Romans invade Britain?
Demonstrators invaded the government buildings.
As the final whistle blew, fans began invading the field.
The cancer cells may invade other parts of the body.
Do the press have the right to invade her privacy in this way?
a foreign invader
They prepared to repel the invaders.
(figurative) The white blood cells attack cells infected with an invader.
The treaty was declared invalid because it had not been ratified.
People with invalid papers are deported to another country.
an invalid argument
An error code will be displayed if any invalid information has been entered.
invalid characters
She had been a delicate child and her parents had treated her as an invalid.
his invalid wife
He was invalided out of the army in 1943.
This new piece of evidence invalidates his version of events.
invaluable information
The book will be invaluable for students in higher education.
The research should prove invaluable in the study of children's language.
Her routine was invariable.
his invariable courtesy and charm
an invariable principle
This acute infection of the brain is almost invariably fatal.
This is not invariably the case.
Invariably the reply came back, 'Not now!'
the German invasion of Poland in 1939
the threat of invasion
an invasion force/fleet
the annual tourist invasion
Farmers are struggling to cope with an invasion of slugs.
The actress described the photographs of her as an invasion of privacy.
invasive cancer
invasive surgery
He inveigled himself into her affections (= dishonestly made her love him).
Who invented the steam engine?
What excuse did he invent this time?
Many children invent an imaginary friend.
Fax machines were a wonderful invention at the time.
Such changes have not been seen since the invention of the printing press.
This story is apparently a complete invention.
John was full of invention—always making up new dance steps and sequences.
She has a highly inventive mind.
an inventory of the museum's contents
The inventory will be disposed of over the next twelve weeks.
inventory control
I've inventoried my father's collection of prints.
A person's wealth is often in inverse proportion to their happiness (= the more money they have, the less happy they are).
There is often an inverse relationship between the power of the tool and how easy it is to use.
We regard health as inversely related to social class.
the inversion of normal word order
an inversion of the truth
Place a plate over the cake tin and invert it.
invertebrate pests
Now is a good time to invest in the property market.
He invested his life savings in his daughter's business.
The government has invested heavily in public transport.
The college is to invest $2 million in a new conference hall.
In his time managing the club he has invested millions on new players.
She had invested all her adult life in the relationship.
The new position invested her with a good deal of responsibility.
The interview was broadcast on the same day he was invested as President.
Don't you think it's about time you invested in a new coat?
Being a model invests her with a certain glamour.
small investors (= private people)
The FBI has been called in to investigate.
(informal) 'What was that noise?' 'I'll go and investigate.'
Police are investigating possible links between the murders.
Police are investigating what happened.
This is not the first time he has been investigated by the police for fraud.
Scientists are investigating the effects of diet on fighting cancer.
The research investigates how foreign speakers gain fluency.
a criminal/murder/police investigation
She is still under investigation.
The police have completed their investigations into the accident.
an investigation into the spending habits of teenagers
The article was an excellent piece of investigative journalism.
The police have full investigatory powers.
air safety investigators
a private investigator (= a detective )
to encourage foreign investment
investment income
This country needs investment in education.
a minimum investment of $10 000
a high return on my investments
Our investments are not doing well.
We bought the house as an investment (= to make money).
A microwave is a good investment.
The project has demanded considerable investment of time and effort.
an inveterate liar
inveterate hostility
We were in the invidious position of having to choose whether to break the law or risk lives.
It would be invidious to single out any one person to thank.
to invigilate an exam
If you have a problem, ask the invigilator.
The cold water invigorated him.
They felt refreshed and invigorated after the walk.
They are looking into ways of invigorating the department.
an invigorating walk/shower
The team seemed invincible.
an invincible belief in his own ability
the inviolable right to life
inviolable territory
an inviolable rule
a wizard who could make himself invisible
She felt invisible in the crowd.
stars invisible to the naked eye
invisible earnings
The ink had faded to invisibility.
He looked at me and nodded, almost invisibly.
to issue/extend an invitation
to accept/turn down/decline an invitation
an invitation to the party
I have an open invitation (= not restricted to a particular date) to visit my friend in Japan.
A concert was held at the invitation of the mayor.
Admission is by invitation only.
Have you ordered the wedding invitations yet?
Leaving the doors unlocked is an open invitation to burglars.
Have you been invited to their party?
I'd have liked to have gone but I wasn't invited.
They have invited me to go to Paris with them.
Successful candidates will be invited for interview next week.
He invited questions from the audience.
Readers are invited to email their comments to us.
Such comments are just inviting trouble.
I got myself invited along.
After the movie, she invited me back for a drink.
Thanks for your invite.
an inviting smell
The water looks really inviting.
to send/issue/settle an invoice for the goods
an invoice for £250
You will be invoiced for these items at the end of the month.
Invoice the goods to my account.
an involuntary cry of pain
the involuntary repatriation of immigrants
involuntary childlessness
to be/become/get involved in politics
We need to examine all the costs involved in the project first.
We'll make our decision and contact the people involved.
Some people tried to stop the fight but I didn't want to get involved.
She was deeply involved with the local hospital.
I was so involved in my book I didn't hear you knock.
He's a very involved father (= he spends a lot of time with his children).
They're not romantically involved.
You're too emotionally involved with the situation.
an involved plot
US involvement in European wars
her growing involvement with contemporary music
He spoke openly about his involvement with the singer.
to be in an invulnerable position
The submarine is invulnerable to attack while at sea.
an inward smile
Her calm expression hid her inward panic.
an inward flow
an inward curve
The door opens inwards.
Her thoughts turned inwards.
(disapproving) an inward-looking person (= one who is not interested in other people)
She groaned inwardly.
I was inwardly furious.
There is not one iota of truth (= no truth at all) in the story.
I don't think that would help one iota.
an IOU for £100
I've downloaded a new camera app to my iPad.
I use a dictionary app on my iPhone whenever I need to know a word in Spanish.
You cannot assume that a speaker of English is ipso facto qualified to teach English.
an IQ of 120
to have a high/low IQ
IQ tests
an irate phone call
to arouse/raise/provoke the ire of local residents
(US) to draw the ire of local residents
totally/completely/largely irrelevant
irrelevant remarks
Whether I believe you or not is irrelevant now.
That evidence is irrelevant to the case.
Many people consider politics irrelevant to their lives.
I felt an irresistible urge to laugh.
His arguments were irresistible.
an irresistible bargain
On such a hot day, the water was irresistible (= it made you want to swim in it).
The bright colours were irresistible to the baby.
They were irresistibly drawn to each other.
a bird with iridescent blue feathers
to be tired and irritable
an irritable gesture
The way she puts on that accent really irritates me.
Some drugs can irritate the lining of the stomach.
I found her extremely irritating.
an irritating habit
an irritating cough/rash
He noted, with some irritation, that the letter had not been sent.
a skin irritation
Her flippant tone irked him.
I found the restrictions irksome.
If he did that IRL he'd have a bullet in his head.
cast/wrought/corrugated iron
iron gates/bars/railings
an iron and steel works
iron ore (= rock containing iron)
patients with iron deficiency (= not enough iron in their blood)
iron tablets (= containing iron prepared as a medicine)
(figurative) She had a will of iron (= it was very strong).
a steam iron
I'll need to iron that dress before I can wear it.
He was ironing when I arrived.
There are still a few details that need ironing out.
She was known as the 'Iron Lady'.
a man of iron will
iron-grey hair
an ironclad alibi/contract/excuse/guarantee
His memo is ironclad proof he was involved.
an ironic comment
It's ironic that she became a teacher—she used to hate school.
Ironically, the book she felt was her worst sold more copies than any of her others.
He smiled ironically.
The irony is that when he finally got the job, he discovered he didn't like it.
It was one of life's little ironies.
'England is famous for its food,' she said with heavy irony.
There was a note of irony in his voice.
She said it without a hint/trace of irony.
to do the ironing
a pile of ironing
faces irradiated with joy
an irrational fear
You're being irrational.
to behave irrationally
This view is irreconcilable with common sense.
irreconcilable enemies
irrecoverable costs
irrecoverable loss of sight
irredeemably spoilt
to cut staff to an irreducible minimum
an irreducible fact
irrefutable evidence
The weather was terrible but we carried on regardless.
irregular teeth
an irregular outline
irregular meals
an irregular heartbeat
irregular attendance at school
He visited his parents at irregular intervals.
an irregular practice
His behaviour is highly irregular.
an irregular verb
alleged irregularities in the election campaign
suspicion of financial irregularity
a slight irregularity in his heartbeat
The paint will cover any irregularity in the surface of the walls.
the irrelevance of the curriculum to children's daily life
His idea was rejected as an irrelevance.
an irremediable situation
to cause irreparable damage/harm to your health
Her death is an irreparable loss.
irreparably damaged
irrepressible confidence
Everyone is treated equally, irrespective of race.
The weekly rent is the same irrespective of whether there are three or four occupants.
an irresponsible teenager
an irresponsible attitude
It would be irresponsible to ignore the situation.
an irretrievable situation
the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage
The money already paid is irretrievable.
Some of our old traditions are irretrievably lost.
irreverent wit
an irreverent attitude to tradition
an irreversible change/decline/decision
irreversible brain damage (= that will not improve)
an irrevocable decision/step
irrevocably committed
irrigated land/crops
irrigation channels
irritant substances
She was getting more and more irritated at his comments.
Violence once again irrupted into their peaceful lives.
'Will they arrive late?' 'Is the Pope a Catholic?'
an ISDN Internet connection
I've finished. Ish. I still need to make the sauce.
Islamic law
We spent a week on the Greek island of Kos.
a remote island off the coast of Scotland
the Isle of Skye
the British Isles
You're always talking in isms—sexism, ageism, racism.
isotope
isometric
Patients with the disease should be isolated.
He was immediately isolated from the other prisoners.
This decision will isolate the country from the rest of Europe.
It is possible to isolate a number of factors that contributed to her downfall.
Researchers are still trying to isolate the gene that causes this abnormality.
isolated rural areas
I felt very isolated in my new job.
Elderly people easily become socially isolated.
The decision left the country isolated from its allies.
The police said the attack was an isolated incident.
geographical isolation
an isolation hospital/ward (= for people with infectious diseases)
The country has been threatened with complete isolation from the international community unless the atrocities stop.
He lives in splendid isolation (= far from, or in a superior position to, everyone else).
Many unemployed people experience feelings of isolation and depression.
an isolationist foreign policy
radioactive isotopes
the many isotopes of carbon
a key/sensitive/controversial issue
This is a big issue; we need more time to think about it.
She usually writes about environmental issues.
The union plans to raise the issue of overtime.
The party was divided on this issue.
You're just avoiding the issue.
Don't confuse the issue.
Money is not an issue.
I don't think my private life is the issue here.
I'm not bothered about the cost—you're the one who's making an issue of it.
Because I grew up in a dysfunctional family, anger is a big issue for me.
She's always on a diet—she has issues about food.
He still has some issues with women (= has problems dealing with them).
If you have any issues, please call this number.
the July issue of 'What Car?'
The article appeared in issue 25.
The company is planning a new share issue.
a special issue of stamps
I bought a set of the new stamps on the date of issue.
the issue of blankets to the refugees
the issue of a joint statement by the French and German foreign ministers
He died without issue.
I must take issue with you on that point.
They issued a joint statement denying the charges.
The police have issued an appeal for witnesses.
to issue passports/visas/tickets
New members will be issued with a temporary identity card.
Work permits were issued to only 5% of those who applied for them.
to issue a writ against sb
A warrant has been issued for his arrest.
We issue a monthly newsletter.
They issued a special set of stamps to mark the occasion.
A weak trembling sound issued from his lips.
credit-card issuers
'Where's your car?' 'It's in the garage.'
Did you see it?
Start a new file and put this letter in it.
Look! It's going up that tree.
We have $500. Will it be enough for a deposit?
Her baby's due next month. She hopes it will be a boy.
When the factory closes, it will mean 500 people losing their jobs.
Yes, I was at home on Sunday. What about it?(= Why do you ask?)
Stop it, you're hurting me!
It's your mother on the phone.
Hello, Peter, it's Mike here.
Hi, it's me!
Was it you who put these books on my desk?
Does it matter what colour it is?
It's impossible to get there in time.
It's no use shouting.
She finds it boring at home.
It appears that the two leaders are holding secret talks.
I find it strange that she doesn't want to go.
It's ten past twelve.
It's our anniversary.
It's two miles to the beach.
It's a long time since they left.
It was raining this morning.
It's quite warm at the moment.
If it's convenient I can come tomorrow.
It's good to talk.
I like it here.
It's Jim who's the clever one.
It's Spain that they're going to, not Portugal.
It was three weeks later that he heard the news.
In this business, either you've got it or you haven't.
That's just it—I can't work when you're making so much noise.
I'm afraid that's it—we've lost.
Well, this is it! Wish me luck.
'You're doing too much.' 'Well, this is it. I can't cope with any more work.'
It just goes to show what you can do when you really try.
It is just as well that we didn't leave any later or we'd have missed him.
It makes no odds to me whether you go or stay.
It says a lot for her that she never lost her temper.
It didn't say much for their efficiency that the order arrived a week late.
Left you, did she? It serves you right for being so selfish.
It stands to reason that they'll leave if you don't pay them enough.
You can't put all the blame on him. It takes two to make a marriage.
It's a wonder (that) more people weren't hurt.
It's only a matter of time before they bring out their own version of the software.
What's the use of worrying about it?
It's no use—I can't persuade her.
Go on, you can do it. It's not exactly rocket science, is it?
an Italianate villa
The example sentences in this dictionary are printed in italic type.
Use an italic font.
Examples in this dictionary are in italics.
Use italics for the names of books or plays.
Italo-Americans
Italophiles
This sweater really itches.
The crowd was itching for a fight.
He's itching to get back to work.
to get/have an itch
She has an itch to travel.
the creative itch
an itchy nose/rash
I feel itchy all over.
What's the next item on the agenda?
Can I pay for each item separately?
The computer was my largest single item of expenditure.
This clock is a collector's item (= because it is rare and valuable).
an item of news/a news item
The report itemizes 23 different faults.
an itemized phone bill (= each call is shown separately)
itinerant workers/musicians
to lead an itinerant life
homeless itinerants
Turn the box on its side.
Have you any idea of its value?
The dog had hurt its paw.
The baby threw its food on the floor.
The cat was washing itself.
Does the computer turn itself off?
The company has got itself into difficulties.
There's no need for the team to feel proud of itself.
The village itself is pretty, but the surrounding countryside is rather dull.
It doesn't have the market to itself.
stone walls covered in ivy
a ban on the ivory trade
an ivory chess set
academics living in ivory towers
Ivy League colleges
You'll be in time if you hurry.
How long will you be staying in Paris?
Fred said he'd be leaving soon.
By next year all the money will have been spent.
I'll check this letter for you, if you want.
They won't lend us any more money.
He wouldn't come—he said he was too busy.
We said we would keep them.
Will you send this letter for me, please?
You'll water the plants while I'm away, won't you?
I asked him if he wouldn't mind calling later.
You'll do it this minute!
Will you be quiet!
That'll be the doctor now.
You'll have had dinner already, I suppose.
If it's made of wood it will float.
Engines won't run without lubricants.
This jar will hold a kilo.
The door won't open!
She'll listen to music, alone in her room, for hours.
He would spend hours on the telephone.
He will comb his hair at the table, even though he knows I don't like it.
Call it what you will, it's still a problem.
As a child he had thought he could fly, if he willed it enough.
She willed her eyes to stay open.
He willed himself not to panic.
They thought they had been victorious in battle because God had willed it.
Joe had willed them everything he possessed.
Joe had willed everything he possessed to them.
to have a strong will
to have an iron will/a will of iron
Her decision to continue shows great strength of will.
In spite of what happened, he never lost the will to live.
The meeting turned out to be a clash of wills.
She always wants to impose her will on other people (= to get what she wants).
I don't want to go against your will.
(formal) It is God's will.
I ought to make a will.
My father left me the house in his will.
a strong-willed young woman
weak-willed greedy people
With the best will in the world I could not describe him as a good father.
She lives with her parents.
I have a client with me right now.
a nice steak with a bottle of red wine
a girl with (= who has) red hair
a jacket with a hood
He looked at her with a hurt expression.
They're both in bed with flu.
a man with a suitcase
Cut it with a knife.
It is treated with acid before being analysed.
The bag was stuffed with dirty clothes.
Sprinkle the dish with salt.
to fight with sb
to play tennis with sb
at war with a neighbouring country
I had an argument with my boss.
Be careful with the glasses.
Are you pleased with the result?
Don't be angry with her.
With these students it's pronunciation that's the problem.
She won't be able to help us with all the family commitments she has.
It's much easier compared with last time.
The meal with wine came to $20 each.
With all the lesson preparation I have to do I work 12 hours a day.
He behaved with great dignity.
She sleeps with the window open.
Don't stand with your hands in your pockets.
She blushed with embarrassment.
His fingers were numb with cold.
The shadows lengthened with the approach of sunset.
Skill comes with practice.
Marine mammals generally swim with the current.
The keys are with reception.
Leave it with me.
She acted with a touring company for three years.
I bank with HSBC.
I could never part with this ring.
Can we dispense with the formalities?
With all her faults I still love her.
Off to bed with you!
Down with school!
Don't you have anything more with it to wear?
You don't seem very with it today.
He muttered a few words of apology and with that he left.
She is creative but not crafty… IYKWIM.
'Jelly' begins with (a) J/'J'.
She jabbed him in the ribs with her finger.
She jabbed her finger in his ribs.
He jabbed at the picture with his finger.
The boxer jabbed at his opponent.
She gave him a jab in the stomach with her elbow.
a boxer's left jab
a flu jab
What is he jabbering about now?
the jack of clubs
You don't know jack.
Someone jacked my seat.
Let's go. We're being jacked around here.
I'm jacking into the Internet now.
After five years, he decided to jack it all in.
Drug users were jacking up in the stairwells.
Jack Frost was threatening to kill the new plants.
Careful, you jackass!
to be under the jackboot of a dictatorial regime
I think she was jacked on caffeine because she wouldn't stop talking.
a denim/tweed jacket
I have to wear a jacket and tie to work.
potatoes baked in their jackets
to win the jackpot
jackpot winners
(figurative) United hit the jackpot (= were successful) with a 5–0 win over Liverpool.
Jacobean drama
a jade necklace
a collection of Chinese jade
I felt terribly jaded after working all weekend.
It was a meal to tempt even the most jaded palate.
a crying jag
jagged rocks/peaks/edges
The whole crowd shouted 'Jai Mahatma!'
She spent a year in jail.
He has been released from jail.
a ten-year jail sentence
Britain's overcrowded jails
He was jailed for life for murder.
strawberry jam
recipes for jams and preserves
(BrE) a jam doughnut
The bus was delayed in a five-mile jam.
As fans rushed to leave, jams formed at all the exits.
There's a paper jam in the photocopier.
They refused to settle for a promise of jam tomorrow.
He jammed his fingers in his ears.
A stool had been jammed against the door.
The photocopier keeps jamming up.
There's a loose part that keeps jamming the mechanism.
The valve has jammed shut.
He jammed the door open with a piece of wood.
Six of us were jammed into one small car.
We were jammed together like sardines in a can.
The cupboards were jammed full of old newspapers.
Nearly 1 000 students jammed into the hall.
Viewers jammed the switchboard with complaints.
The train was jam-packed with commuters.
the movie industry's annual jamboree at Cannes
I can't get the door open—it's completely jammed.
Hundreds more people were waiting outside the jammed stadium.
jammy fingers
The shop bell jangled loudly.
He jangled the keys in his pocket.
She was suddenly wide awake, her nerves jangling.
a storage jar
a water jar
Do you fancy a jar after work?
The fall gave him a nasty jar.
The jolt seemed to jar every bone in her body.
The spade jarred on something metal.
His constant moaning was beginning to jar on her nerves.
There was a jarring note of triumph in his voice.
Her brown shoes jarred with the rest of the outfit.
medical/legal/computer, etc. jargon
Try to avoid using too much technical jargon.
He had a jaundiced view of life.
She looked on politicians with a jaundiced eye.
a jaundiced patient/liver
a jaunty smile
a jaunty tune
He set off jauntily, whistling to himself.
the top/upper jaw
the bottom/lower jaw
He has a strong square jaw.
The punch broke my jaw.
The alligator's jaws snapped shut.
the jaws of a vice
The team snatched victory from the jaws of defeat.
a jaw-dropping 5 million dollars
The production is absolutely jaw-dropping.
jaw-droppingly beautiful
a jazz band/club
traditional/modern jazz
jazz musicians
It's a jazzed up version of an old tune.
I was jazzed to meet someone so famous.
a jazzy melody/tune
That's a jazzy tie you're wearing.
He has that je ne sais quoi that distinguishes a professional from an amateur.
a jealous wife/husband
He's only talking to her to make you jealous.
She's jealous of my success.
Children often feel jealous when a new baby arrives.
They are very jealous of their good reputation (= they do not want to lose it).
She eyed Natalia jealously.
a jealously guarded secret
I felt sick with jealousy.
sexual jealousy
I'm tired of her petty jealousies.
a faded pair of blue jeans
Jeepers! That car nearly hit us!
a jeering crowd
The police were jeered at by the waiting crowd.
The players were jeered by disappointed fans.
'Coward!' he jeered.
He walked on to the stage to be greeted with jeers and whistles.
We just didn't jell as a group.
Ideas were beginning to jell in my mind.
That day, everything jelled.
jelly and ice cream
a raspberry jelly
chicken in jelly
blackcurrant jelly
He would never do anything to jeopardize his career.
He jerked the phone away from her.
She jerked her head up.
The bus jerked to a halt.
He grabbed a handful of hair and jerked at it.
She got to the door and jerked it open.
Consumers are often jerked around by big companies.
She sat up with a jerk.
jerk chicken
The car moved off jerkily.
beef jerky
made from 100% cotton jersey
Would I jest about such a thing?
the court jester
a Jesuit priest
a jet aircraft/fighter/airliner
The accident happened as the jet was about to take off.
The pipe burst and jets of water shot across the room.
to clean the gas jets on the cooker
her jet-setting millionaire boyfriend
to jettison fuel
He was jettisoned as team coach after the defeat.
The family jewels are locked away in a safe.
I bought it at the jeweller's near my office.
silver/gold jewellery
She has some lovely pieces of jewellery.
We're Jewish.
the local Jewish community
British Jewry
She agreed to attend but jibbed at making a speech.
He made several cheap jibes at his opponent during the interview.
He jibed repeatedly at the errors they had made.
Your statement doesn't jibe with the facts.
I'll be with you in a jiffy (= very soon).
an Irish jig
He jigged up and down with excitement.
Stop jiggling around!
She jiggled with the lock.
He stood jiggling his car keys in his hand.
to do a jigsaw
He was jilted by his fiancée.
a jilted bride/lover
the jingle of coins in his pocket
The chimes jingled in the breeze.
She jingled the coins in her pocket.
I'm convinced there's a jinx on this car.
The whole family seemed to be jinxed.
I always get the jitters before exams.
to talk jive
He's trying to get a job.
She took a job as a waitress.
His brother's just lost his job.
a summer/holiday/Saturday/vacation job
a temporary/permanent job
I'm thinking of applying for a new job.
The takeover of the company is bound to mean more job losses.
Many women are in part-time jobs.
Did they offer you the job?
He certainly knows his job (= is very good at his job).
I'm only doing my job (= I'm doing what I am paid to do).
He's been out of a job (= unemployed) for six months now.
She's never had a steady job (= a job that is not going to end suddenly).
I've got various jobs around the house to do.
Sorting these papers out is going to be a long job.
The builder has a couple of jobs on at the moment.
It's not my job to lock up!
a bank job
an inside job (= done by sb in the organization where the crime happens)
It's real wood—not one of those plastic jobs.
It's more than my job's worth to let you in without a ticket.
No sleeping on the job!
on-the-job training
You need the patience of Job to deal with some of our customers.
At that time I had been job-hunting for six months.
The company encourages job-shares and part-time working.
Her bikini was one of those expensive designer jobbies.
a jobbing actor/builder
The closure left 500 people jobless.
a computer jock
The runners jockeyed for position at the start.
The bands are constantly jockeying with each other for the number one spot.
a jocular comment
a pair of jodhpurs
Joe Sixpack doesn't care about that.
I go jogging every evening.
Someone jogged her elbow, making her spill her coffee.
I like to go for a jog after work.
to go jogging
Join one section of pipe to the next.
The island is joined to the mainland by a bridge.
Join the two sections of pipe together.
Draw a line joining (up) all the crosses.
How do these two pieces join?
the place where the two paths join
The path joins the road near the trees.
I've joined an aerobics class.
She joined the company three months ago.
(figurative) to join the ranks of the unemployed
It costs £20 to join.
Will you join us for lunch?
Do you mind if I join you?
Over 200 members of staff joined the strike.
Members of the public joined the search for the missing boy.
I'm sure you'll all join me in wishing Ted and Laura a very happy marriage.
She listens but she never joins in.
I wish he would join in with the other children.
We'll join up with the other groups later.
The two pieces were stuck together so well that you could hardly see the join.
We need more joined-up thinking in our approach to the environment.
All joiners will receive a welcome pack.
a joint account (= a bank account in the name of more than one person, for example a husband and wife)
The report was a joint effort (= we worked on it together).
They finished in joint first place.
They were joint owners of the house (= they owned it together).
The event was organized jointly by students and staff.
inflammation of the knee joint
a joint of beef
the Sunday joint (= one traditionally eaten on a Sunday)
a fast-food joint
a doll with jointed arms/legs
I can't tell jokes.
She's always cracking jokes.
They often make jokes at each other's expense.
I didn't get the joke (= understand it).
I wish he wouldn't tell dirty jokes (= about sex).
I only did it as a joke (= it was not meant seriously).
This latest pay offer is a joke.
The trouble with her is she can't take a joke.
She was laughing and joking with the children.
They often joked about all the things that could go wrong.
'I cooked it myself, so be careful!' he joked.
I didn't mean that—I was only joking.
She joked that she only loved him for his money.
No way am I doing that. You must be joking!
She's going out with Dan? You're joking!
Have a jol!
a New Year's Eve jol
We jolled all night.
a jolly crowd/face/mood
a jolly evening/party/time
scenes of high-spirits and jollity
That's a jolly good idea.
If you don't come now, you can jolly well walk home!
The truck jolted and rattled over the rough ground.
The bus jolted to a halt.
(figurative) Her heart jolted when she saw him.
He was jolted forwards as the bus moved off.
His remark jolted her into action.
a method of jolting the economy out of recession
I was suddenly jolted awake.
The plane landed with a jolt.
a jolt of dismay
a scientific/trade journal
the British Medical Journal
the Wall Street Journal
He kept a journal of his travels across Asia.
The visiting president was jostled by angry demonstrators.
People were jostling, arguing and complaining.
People in the crowd were jostling for the best positions.
I'll just jot down the address for you.
There's not a jot of truth in what he says (= none at all).
journalistic skills
his journalistic background
They went on a long train journey across India.
Did you have a good journey?
on the outward/return journey
We broke our journey (= stopped for a short time) in Madrid.
(BrE) Don't use the car for short journeys.
It's a day's journey by car.
(BrE) I'm afraid you've had a wasted journey (= you cannot do what you have come to do).
(informal) Bye! Safe journey! (= used when sb is beginning a journey)
(figurative) The book describes a spiritual journey from despair to happiness.
They journeyed for seven long months.
a man with heavy jowls
the sheer joy of being with her again
to dance for/with joy
I didn't expect them to jump for joy at the news (= to be very pleased).
To his great joy, she accepted.
the joys of fatherhood
The game was a joy to watch.
We complained about our rooms but got no joy from the manager.
'Any joy at the shops?' 'No, they didn't have what I wanted.'
a joyless childhood
joyous laughter
Helen Alvey JP
JPEG files
You can download the pictures as JPEGs.
This jacket is just my size.
This gadget is just the thing for getting those nails out.
Just my luck (= the sort of bad luck I usually have). The phone's not working.
You're just in time.
She looks just like her mother.
It's just what I wanted!
It's just as I thought.
(BrE) It's just on six (= exactly six o'clock).
The clock struck six just as I arrived.
She's just as smart as her sister.
You can get there just as cheaply by plane.
I got here just after nine.
I only just caught the train.
Inflation fell to just over 4 per cent.
I've just heard the news.
When you arrived he had only just left.
She has just been telling us about her trip to Rome.
(especially NAmE) I just saw him a moment ago.
I'm just finishing my book.
I was just beginning to enjoy myself when we had to leave.
I'm just off (= I am leaving now).
The water's just about to boil.
I was just going to tell you when you interrupted.
It was just an ordinary day.
I can't just drop all my commitments.
This essay is just not good enough.
I didn't mean to upset you. It's just that I had to tell somebody.
This is not just another disaster movie—it's a masterpiece.
Just because you're older than me doesn't mean you know everything.
I decided to learn Japanese just for fun.
I waited an hour just to see you.
There is just one method that might work.
'Can I help you?' 'No thanks, I'm just looking.' (= in a shop/store)
The food was just wonderful!
I can just imagine his reaction.
Just listen to what I'm saying, will you!
Just help yourselves.
Could you just help me with this box, please?
I've just got a few things to do first.
Try his home number—he might just be there.
'He's very pompous.' 'Isn't he just?'
'Is Mr Burns available?' 'Just a second, please, I'll check.'
Come and see me later—I'm busy just now.
Business is good just now.
I saw her just now.
He liked polishing the furniture and making everything just so.
Just then, someone knocked at the front door.
I can't give you the money just yet.
a just decision/law/society
a just reward/punishment
I think she got her just deserts (= what she deserved).
to be treated justly
to be justly proud of sth
the jua kali sector
Judaic tradition
It was near the junction of City Road and Old Street.
Come off the motorway at junction 6.
a telephone junction box
He slammed on the brakes and the car juddered to a halt.
a High Court judge
a federal judge
The case comes before Judge Cooper next week.
The judge sentenced him to five years in prison.
the panel of judges at the flower show
The judges' decision is final.
She's a good judge of character.
'I'm not sure that's a good way to do it.' ' Let me be the judge of that.'
As far as I can judge, all of them are to blame.
Judging by her last letter, they are having a wonderful time.
To judge from what he said, he was very disappointed.
Schools should not be judged only on exam results.
Each painting must be judged on its own merits.
The tour was judged a great success.
The concert was judged to have been a great success.
They judged it wise to say nothing.
He judged that the risk was too great.
It was judged that the risk was too great.
It was hard to judge how great the risk was.
It's difficult to judge how long the journey will take.
I judged him to be about 50.
She was asked to judge the essay competition.
What gives you the right to judge other people?
to judge a case
to judge sb guilty/not guilty
good/poor/sound judgement
She showed a lack of judgement when she gave Mark the job.
It's not something I can give you rules for; you'll have to use your judgement.
He achieved his aim more by luck than judgement.
The accident was caused by an error of judgement on the part of the pilot.
He refused to make a judgement about the situation.
Who am I to pass judgement on her behaviour?(= to criticize it)
I'd like to reserve judgement until I see the report.
It was, in her judgement, the wrong thing to do.
I did it against my better judgement (= although I thought it was perhaps the wrong thing to do).
a judgment from the European Court of Justice
The judgment will be given tomorrow.
The court has yet to pass judgment (= say what its decision is) in this case.
How dare you sit in judgement on me?
the judgemental process
judicial powers
the judicial process/system
There is to be a judicial review of the visa changes.
an independent judiciary
a judiciously worded letter
He does judo.
She's a black belt in judo.
a milk/water jug
a five-gallon jug of beer
She spilled a jug of water.
jugaad innovation
juggernauts roaring through country villages
a bureaucratic juggernaut
My uncle taught me to juggle.
to juggle with balls
(figurative) I was juggling books, shopping bags and the baby (= I was trying to hold them all without dropping them).
Working mothers are used to juggling their jobs, their children's needs and their housework.
Add the juice of two lemons.
a carton of apple juice
Two orange juices, please.
digestive/gastric juices
Juice two oranges.
soft juicy pears
The meat was tender and juicy.
juicy gossip
a juicy prize
Books, shoes and clothes were jumbled together on the floor.
a jumbled collection of objects
jumbled thoughts
a jumble of books and paper
The essay was a meaningless jumble of ideas.
a jumbo pack of cornflakes
'Quick, jump!' he shouted.
to jump into the air/over a wall/into the water
The children were jumping up and down with excitement.
She jumped down from the chair.
The pilot jumped from the burning plane (= with a parachute ).
She has jumped 2.2 metres.
Can you jump that gate?
His horse fell as it jumped the last hurdle.
I jumped my horse over all the fences.
He jumped to his feet when they called his name.
She jumped up and ran out of the room.
Do you want a ride? Jump in.
A loud bang made me jump.
Her heart jumped when she heard the news.
Prices jumped by 60% last year.
Sales jumped from $2.7 billion to $3.5 billion.
I couldn't follow the talk because he kept jumping about from one topic to another.
The story then jumps from her childhood in New York to her first visit to London.
You seem to have jumped several steps in the argument.
The needle jumped across the dial.
The film jumped during projection.
The thieves jumped him in a dark alleyway.
to jump a bus
The bar's jumping tonight.
Has the show finally jumped the shark?
Before she could reply Peter jumped in with an objection.
The mistake in the figures jumped out at me.
a jump of over six metres
The story takes a jump back in time.
Somehow he survived the jump from the third floor of the building.
to do a parachute jump
a ski jump champion
I sat up with a jump (= quickly and suddenly).
The negotiations took a jump forward yesterday (= they made progress).
The horse fell at the last jump.
a 20 per cent jump in pre-tax profits
unusually large price jumps
a woolly jumper
He's a good jumper.
The battle had reached a crucial juncture.
At this juncture, I would like to make an important announcement.
The area was covered in dense jungle.
the jungles of South-East Asia
jungle warfare
Our garden is a complete jungle.
It's a jungle out there—you've got to be strong to succeed.
junior employees
She is junior to me.
the world junior tennis championships
I spent my junior year in France.
office juniors
She has coached many of our leading juniors.
I leave junior with Mom when I'm at work.
I've cleared out all that old junk in the attic.
There's nothing but junk on the TV.
(informal, disapproving) Is this all your junk (= are these all your things)?
members of the jury
to be/sit/serve on a jury
The jury has/have returned a verdict of guilty.
the right to trial by jury
a professor of jurisprudence
Just my luck to arrive after they had left.
It's merely a question of time before the business collapses.
It's just a question of deciding what you really want.
laws based on the principles of justice
They are demanding equal rights and justice.
Who can deny the justice of their cause?
the criminal justice system
The European Court of Justice
(BrE) They were accused of attempting to pervert the course of justice.
(NAmE) They were accused of attempting to obstruct justice.
Mr Justice Davies
justifiable pride
The university can be justifiably proud of its record.
I can see no possible justification for any further tax increases.
He was getting angry—and with some justification.
She felt fully justified in asking for her money back.
His fears proved justified.
How can they justify paying such huge salaries?
Her success had justified the faith her teachers had put in her.
The Prime Minister has been asked to justify the decision to Parliament.
You don't need to justify yourself to me.
A row of small windows jutted out from the roof.
A rocky headland jutted into the sea.
a jutting chin
She jutted her chin out stubbornly.
juvenile crime/employment
juvenile offenders
juvenile behaviour
Don't be so juvenile!
In the exhibition, abstract paintings are juxtaposed with shocking photographs.
the juxtaposition of realistic and surreal situations in the novel
'King' begins with (a) K/'K'.
She earns 40K (= £40 000) a year.
a 10K race
The money was rolling in, ka-ching, ka-ching!
Ka-ching! I just got my first cheque.
My attempt to get a new passport turned into a Kafkaesque nightmare.
Kaiser Wilhelm
She loves doing kakuros.
a kamikaze pilot/attack
(figurative) He made a kamikaze run across three lanes of traffic.
The truck's kaput.
a karaoke machine/night/bar
a karate chop (= a blow with the side of the hand)
Vegetarians believe that eating meat is bad karma.
to go kayaking
Several of them keeled over in the heat.
John was very keen to help.
We are keen that our school should get involved too.
I wasn't too keen on going to the party.
a keen sportsman
one of the keenest supporters of the team
Tom's very keen on Anna.
a keen mind/intellect
a keen sense of tradition
He took a keen interest in his grandson's education.
Dogs have a keen sense of smell.
My friend has a keen eye for (= is good at noticing) a bargain.
There is keen competition for places at the college.
a keenly fought contest
We were keenly aware of the danger.
He's mad keen on planes.
We huddled together to keep warm.
The notice said 'Keep off (= Do not walk on) the grass'.
Keep left along the wall.
She kept the children amused for hours.
He kept his coat on.
Don't keep us in suspense —what happened next?
She had trouble keeping her balance.
I'm very sorry to keep you waiting.
Keep smiling!
Don't keep on interrupting me!
You're an hour late—what kept you?
Here's a five dollar bill—please keep the change.
I keep all her letters.
Please keep a seat for me.
Please keep me a seat.
Keep your passport in a safe place.
Her father kept a grocer's shop.
to keep bees/goats/hens
How is your mother keeping?
We're all keeping well.
Finish off the pie—it won't keep.
(informal, figurative) 'I'd love to hear about it, but I'm late already.' 'That's OK— it'll keep (= I can tell you about it later).'
Can you keep a secret?
She kept her past secret from us all.
She kept her promise to visit them.
He failed to keep his appointment at the clinic.
She kept a diary for over twenty years.
Keep a note of where each item can be found.
He scarcely earns enough to keep himself and his family.
May the Lord bless you and keep you (= used in prayers in the Christian Church).
His only thought was to keep the boy from harm.
You just have to keep yourself busy and keep going.
Keep going, Sarah, you're nearly there.
Have an apple to keep you going till dinner time.
Come on, keep at it, you've nearly finished!
He kept us at it all day.
Keep away from the edge of the cliff.
Her illness kept her away from work for several weeks.
Keep well back from the road.
Barricades were erected to keep back the crowds.
She was unable to keep back her tears.
He kept back half the money for himself.
I'm sure she's keeping something back from us.
Keep down! You mustn't let anyone see you.
The people have been kept down for years by a brutal regime.
to keep down wages/prices/the cost of living
Keep your voice down—I don't want anyone else to hear.
Keep the noise down (= be quiet).
She's had some water but she can't keep any food down.
She could hardly keep from laughing.
I just managed to keep myself from falling.
I hope I'm not keeping you from your work.
The church bells keep me from sleeping.
I think we ought to keep the truth from him until he's better.
She could not keep the dismay from her voice.
He could scarcely keep in his indignation.
I'm trying to keep off fatty foods.
It's best to keep off politics when my father's around.
They lit a fire to keep off wild animals.
Keep your hands off (= do not touch) me!
Keep on until you get to the church.
He does keep on so!
I'll do it—just don't keep on at me about it!
The sign said 'Private Property—Keep Out!'
Keep that dog out of my study!
That child can't keep out of mischief.
Keep the baby out of the sun.
Keep to the track—the land is very boggy around here.
Nothing is more irritating than people who do not keep to the point.
to keep to an agreement/an undertaking/a plan
She's nearly 90 and mostly keeps to her room.
Nobody knows much about him; he keeps himself very much to himself.
I'd be grateful if you kept this information to yourself.
The local people are kept under by the army.
The rain kept up all afternoon.
Slow down—I can't keep up!
I can't keep up with all the changes.
Wages are not keeping up with inflation.
How many of your old school friends do you keep up with?
She likes to keep up with the latest fashions.
If you do not keep up with the payments you could lose your home.
I hope we're not keeping you up.
The high cost of raw materials is keeping prices up.
The enemy kept up the bombardment day and night.
We're having difficulty keeping up our mortgage payments.
Well done! Keep up the good work/Keep it up!
They sang songs to keep their spirits up.
to keep up old traditions
Do you still keep up your Spanish?
It's about time you got a job to earn your keep.
It's not always possible to keep tabs on everyone's movements.
The government is keeping the lid on inflation.
He kept mum about what he'd seen.
She found it hard to keep pace with him as he strode off.
Until now, wage increases have always kept pace with inflation.
I've decided to resign but I'd rather you kept quiet about it.
Surprise visits help to keep the staff on their toes.
I'm sorry to have kept you waiting.
I've warned them to keep their mouths shut about this.
Now she's upset—why couldn't you keep your mouth shut?
Keep your shirt on! It was only a joke.
a keep-fit class
Bank statements help you keep track of where your money is going.
I lost all track of time (= forgot what time it was).
Police have appealed for witnesses, but it seems the locals are keeping shtum.
the keeper of geology at the museum
The painting is out of keeping with the rest of the room.
We put the dog in kennels when we go away.
The bus mounted the kerb (= went onto the pavement /sidewalk) and hit a tree.
to stand at the kerbside
a kerosene lamp
an electric kettle
(BrE) I'll put the kettle on (= start boiling some water) and make some tea.
Hundreds of protesters were kettled at the start of the demonstration.
Police used tactics such as kettling in an attempt to bring an end to the protest.
to insert/turn the key in the lock
the car keys
the spare key to the front door
We'll have a duplicate key cut (= made).
The key to success is preparation.
The driver of the car probably holds the key to solving the crime.
(especially NAmE) The key is, how long can the federal government control the inflation rate?
Press the return key to enter the information.
a sonata in the key of E flat major
Check your answers in the key at the back of the book.
Key (in) your password.
The classes are keyed to the needs of advanced students.
the key issue/factor/point
She played a key role in the dispute.
'Caution' is the key word in this situation.
Good communication is key to our success.
His contribution could be key.
The city council helps key workers find affordable housing.
Choice is the keynote of the new education policy.
a keynote speech/speaker (= a very important one, introducing a meeting or its subject)
For the first time, a woman will be the keynoter at the convention this year.
When you're studying a language, the keyword is patience.
Enter the keyword 'restaurants' and click on Search.
10kg
He wore a pair of baggy khakis.
khaki uniforms
It is rude to kibitz during a serious game.
I paused to kibitz a poker game.
We sat around and kibitzed until about eleven.
She was punched and kicked by her attackers.
Stop kicking—it hurts!
The boys were kicking a ball around in the yard.
Vandals had kicked the door down.
The dancers kicked their legs in the air.
The child was dragged away, kicking and screaming.
He'll kick himself when he finds out he could have had the job.
to kick a penalty/goal
This is another attempt to kick the can down the road and leave it to the next generation.
There's a pen kicking around on my desk somewhere.
They spent the summer kicking around Europe.
Young people often kick against the rules.
Kick back and enjoy the summer.
Reforms will kick in later this year.
What time shall we kick off?
to kick off your shoes
the first kick of the game
She gave him a kick on the shin.
He aimed a kick at the dog.
If the door won't open, give it a kick.
(slang) She needs a kick up the backside (= she needs to be strongly encouraged to do sth or to behave better).
I get a kick out of driving fast cars.
He gets his kicks from hurting other people.
What do you do for kicks?
This drink has quite a kick.
the film's kick-ass heroine
his reputation as a kick-ass coach
a kick-ass visual feast
truly kick-ass quality
The kick-off is at 3.
The government's attempt to kick-start the economy has failed.
The club was really kicking last night.
They gave him a good kicking.
A bunch of kids were hanging around outside.
a kid of 15
She's a bright kid.
How are the kids (= your children)?
Do you have any kids?
I thought he was kidding when he said he was going out with a rock star.
I didn't mean it. I was only kidding.
I'm not kidding you. It does work.
They're kidding themselves if they think it's going to be easy.
I tried to kid myself (that) everything was normal.
'It's cold!' 'No kidding!'
I want the money back tomorrow. No kidding.
a kiddies' party
Two businessmen have been kidnapped by terrorists.
The kidnappers are demanding a ransom of $1 million.
He admitted the charge of kidnap.
the kidnapping of 12 US citizens
a kidney infection
steak and kidney pie
Cancer kills thousands of people every year.
Three people were killed in the crash.
He tried to kill himself with sleeping pills.
I bought a spray to kill the weeds.
(informal) My mother will kill me (= be very angry with me) when she finds out.
Don't kill yourself trying to get the work done by tomorrow. It can wait.
Tiredness while driving can kill.
to kill a rumour
Do you agree that television kills conversation?
The defeat last night killed the team's chances of qualifying.
My feet are killing me.
Stop it! You're killing me!
He was killing himself laughing.
Some drugs kill off useful bacteria in the user's body.
He has effectively killed off any political opposition.
A cat often plays with a mouse before the kill.
The plane prepared to move in for the kill.
I was in at the kill when she finally lost her job (= present at the end of an unpleasant process).
lions feeding on their kill
Police are hunting his killer.
Heart disease is the biggest killer in Scotland.
an electric insect killer
The players lacked the killer instinct.
The exam was a real killer.
The new movie is a killer.
brutal killings
a killing schedule
2 kilograms of rice
Flour is sold by the kilogram.
kilojoule
His views are out of kilter with world opinion.
Long flights throw my sleeping pattern out of kilter for days.
three kinds of cakes/cake
music of all/various/different kinds
Exercises of this kind are very popular.
What kind of house do you live in?
They sell all kinds of things.
The school is the first of its kind in Britain.
She isn't that kind of girl.
The regions differ in size, but not in kind.
I need to buy paper and pencils, that kind of thing.
I'll never have that kind of money (= as much money as that).
(formal) Would you like a drink of some kind?
each/one/every kind of animal
all/many/other sorts of animals
This kind of question often appears in the exam.
That sort of behaviour is not acceptable.
These kinds of questions often appear in the exam.
These sorts of behaviour are not acceptable.
These kinds of question often appear in the exam.
These sort of things don't happen in real life.
The shelf was full of the sort of books I like to read.
He faced the same kind of problems as his predecessor.
There are many different sorts of animal on the island.
What kind of camera is this?
What kind/kinds of cameras do you sell?
There were three kinds of cakes/cake on the plate.
That made me feel kind of stupid.
I like him, kind of.
'I was terrible!' 'You were nothing of the kind.'
You're making progress of a kind.
They're two of a kind—both workaholics!
My father was one of a kind—I'll never be like him.
'He's resigning.' 'I'd suspected something of the kind.'
a very kind and helpful person
a kind heart/face
a kind action/gesture/comment
You've been very kind.
kind to animals
(figurative) Soft water is kinder to your hair.
(figurative) The weather was very kind to us.
It was really kind of you to help me.
(formal) Thank you for your kind invitation.
(formal) 'Do have another.' 'That's very kind of you (= thank you).'
Would you be kind enough to close the window?
We watched as the fire slowly kindled.
to kindle a fire/flame
It was her teacher who kindled her interest in music.
Suspicion kindled within her.
She spoke kindly to them.
He has kindly agreed to help.
Kindly leave me alone!
Visitors are kindly requested to sign the book.
He hoped they would look kindly on his request.
She doesn't take kindly to sudden change.
to treat sb with kindness and consideration
I can never repay your many kindnesses to me.
ties of kindred
food and kindred products
I knew I'd found a kindred spirit (= a person with similar ideas, opinions, etc.).
kinetic energy
the kings and queens of England
to be crowned king
King George V
the king of comedy
The lion is the king of the jungle.
a king penguin
a king-size bed
a king-sized headache
the United Kingdom
the kingdom of God (= heaven)
the animal, vegetable and mineral kingdoms
a dog with a kink in its tail
(figurative) We need to iron out the kinks in the new system.
the ties of kinship
I must get some kip.
Why don't you have a quick kip?
You can kip on the sofa, if you like.
the parish kirk
They stood in a doorway kissing (= kissing each other).
Do people in Britain kiss when they meet?
Go and kiss your mother goodnight.
She kissed him on both cheeks.
He lifted the trophy up and kissed it.
The sunlight kissed the warm stones.
Come here and let me kiss it better.
He kissed away her tears.
Come here and give me a kiss!
a kiss on the cheek
We were greeted with hugs and kisses.
She gave her husband the kiss-off.
He got the kiss-off from his job.
a kit for a model plane
a drum kit
sports kit
They were all kitted out in brand-new ski outfits.
She's in the kitchen.
We ate at the kitchen table.
a kitchen-sink drama
to fly a kite
to kite checks
check kiting
We each put £50 in the kitty to cover the bills.
I'll klap you!
to give sb a klap
a box of Kleenex
Here, have a Kleenex to dry your eyes.
She's a kleptomaniac.
We're twenty klicks south of your position.
It's easy, once you've got the knack.
He's got a real knack for making money.
She has the unfortunate knack of always saying the wrong thing.
I don't do aerobics any more—it's too knackering.
the knave of clubs
a knee injury
I grazed my knee when I fell.
He went down on one knee and asked her to marry him.
She was on her knees scrubbing the kitchen floor.
These jeans are torn at the knee.
a knee patch
Come and sit on Daddy's knee.
His sudden smile made her go weak at the knees.
He kneed his attacker in the groin.
The snow was knee-deep in places.
(figurative) I was knee-deep in work.
I waded in knee-deep.
It was a knee-jerk reaction on her part.
knee-length shorts/socks
a kneeling figure
We knelt (down) on the ground to examine the tracks.
a pair of knickers
knicker elastic
knives and forks
a sharp knife
a bread knife (= one for cutting bread)
She was murdered in a frenzied knife attack.
The economy is balanced on a knife-edge.
He was knighted by the Queen for his services to industry.
He received a knighthood in the New Year's Honours list.
I knitted this cardigan myself.
Lucy was sitting on the sofa, knitting.
She's knitting the baby a shawl.
Knit one row, purl one row.
a closely/tightly knit community (= one in which relationships are very close)
Society is knit together by certain commonly held beliefs.
The bone failed to knit correctly.
winter knits
knitted gloves
a white knit dress
a hand-knitted sweater
a cotton-knit shirt
Where's my knitting?
the volume control knob
It isn't art—it's just a horror movie with knobs on!
knobbly knees
He knocked three times and waited.
Somebody was knocking on the window.
Be careful you don't knock your head on this low beam.
Her hand knocked against the glass.
The blow knocked me flat.
He was knocked senseless by the blow.
She knocked my drink flying.
The two rooms had been knocked into one (= the wall between them had been knocked down).
He'd knocked over a glass of water.
I knocked the nail into the wall.
They had to knock the door down to get in.
The boys were knocking (= kicking) a ball around in the back yard.
(figurative) The criticism had knocked (= damaged) her self-esteem.
They managed to knock a hole in the wall.
My heart was knocking wildly.
The newspapers are always knocking the England team.
'E-books?' ' Don't knock it —there's a great future in e-books.'
The recession knocked on the head any idea of expanding the company.
He spent a few years knocking around Europe.
It must be knocking around here somewhere.
Hearing the news really knocked me back.
That house must have knocked them back a bit.
I managed to knock him down to $400.
She was knocked down by a bus.
He knocked his opponent down three times in the first round.
These old houses are going to be knocked down.
He knocked down the price from $80 to $50.
Do you want to knock off early today?
What time do you knock off work?
Let's knock off for lunch.
He knocks off three novels a year.
to knock off a DVD player
to knock off a bank
They knocked off $60 because of a scratch.
The news knocked 13% off the company's shares.
The blow knocked her out.
The movie just knocked me out.
England had been knocked out of the World Cup.
He knocks out five books a year.
I knocked some bookshelves together from old planks.
The house consists of two cottages knocked together.
She knocked up a meal in ten minutes.
There was a knock on/at the door.
He got a nasty knock on the head.
a knock-down punch
The increase in the price of oil had a knock-on effect on the cost of many other goods.
the knockout stages of the tournament
to tie a knot
Tie the two ropes together with a knot.
(figurative) hair full of knots and tangles (= twisted in a way that is difficult to comb )
She had her hair in a knot.
My stomach was in knots.
I could feel a knot of fear in my throat.
He carefully knotted his tie.
She wore her hair loosely knotted on top of her head.
She felt her stomach knot with fear.
a knotty problem
the knotty roots of the old oak tree
Do you know his address?
The cause of the fire is not yet known.
All I know is that she used to work in a bank (= I have no other information about her).
I know (that) people's handwriting changes as they get older.
It is widely known that CFCs can damage the ozone layer.
I knew where he was hiding.
I didn't know what he was talking about.
'You've got a flat tyre.' 'I know.'
'What's the answer?' 'I don't know.'
'There's no one in.' ' How do you know? '
You know about Amanda's baby, don't you?
I don't know about you, but I'm ready for something to eat.
I know of at least two people who did the same thing.
'Is anyone else coming?' ' Not that I know of. '
'Isn't that his car?' ' I wouldn't know./How should I know? ' (= I don't know and I am not the person you should ask.)
(informal) 'What are you two whispering about?' ' You don't want to know ' (= because you would be shocked or wouldn't approve).
Does he know to come here (= that he should come here) first?
We know her to be honest.
Two women are known to have died.
As soon as I walked in the room I knew (that) something was wrong.
She knew she was dying.
I knew perfectly well what she meant.
I know exactly how you feel.
This case is hopeless and he knows it (= although he will not admit it).
'Martin was lying all the time.' ' I should have known.'
He knew (that) he could trust her.
I know it's here somewhere!
I don't know that I can finish it by next week.
'You were right—someone's been spreading rumours about you.' 'I knew it!'
'She's the worst player in the team.' 'Oh, I don't know (= I am not sure that I agree) —she played well yesterday.'
I've known David for 20 years.
Do you two know each other (= have you met before)?
She's very nice when you get to know her.
Knowing Ben, we could be waiting a long time (= it is typical of him to be late).
This man is known to the police (= as a criminal).
I know Paris well.
Do you know the play (= have you seen or read it before)?
The new rules could mean the end of football as we know it (= in the form that we are familiar with).
It's known as the most dangerous part of the city.
She is best known for her work on the human brain.
He's known to be an outstanding physicist.
The drug is commonly known as Ecstasy.
Peter Wilson, also known as 'the Tiger'
I couldn't see who was speaking, but I knew the voice.
I hope we have taught our children to know right from wrong.
Do you know any Japanese?
Do you know how to use spreadsheets?
I've never known it (to) snow in July before.
He has been known to spend all morning in the bathroom.
He has known both poverty and wealth.
She may be successful now, but she has known what it is like to be poor.
You know as well as I do that you're being unreasonable.
The doctor told you to stay in bed, and she knows best.
He knows better than to judge by appearances.
He knew full well what she thought of it.
The President has let it be known that he does not intend to run for election again.
Let me know how I can help.
I made myself known to the hotel manager.
There's no knowing how he'll react.
What does he know about football, anyway?
Well, what do you know? Look who's here!
Well, you know, it's difficult to explain.
Guess who I've just seen? Maggie! You know—Jim's wife.
You know that restaurant round the corner? It's closed down.
I'm not stupid, you know.
You know something? I've never really enjoyed Christmas.
Lord knows, I tried to teach her.
'Why did she say that?' 'Lord knows!'
We need skilled workers and technical know-how.
a knowing smile
She was accused of knowingly making a false statement to the police.
He glanced at her knowingly.
practical/medical/scientific knowledge
He has a wide knowledge of painting and music.
There is a lack of knowledge about the tax system.
She sent the letter without my knowledge.
The film was made with the Prince's full knowledge and approval.
She was impatient in the knowledge that time was limited.
I went to sleep secure in the knowledge that I was not alone in the house.
They could relax safe in the knowledge that they had the funding for the project.
He denied all knowledge of the affair.
'Are they divorced?' 'Not to my knowledge.'
She is very knowledgeable about plants.
He's a known thief.
The disease has no known cure.
I'm going to have to knuckle down to some serious study.
The meal finishes with koeksisters, plaits of deep-fried dough dipped in syrup.
They went for a walk up the koppie.
chicken korma
Their business deals are not always completely kosher.
The sergeant assigned him to KP.
a cattle kraal
the kudos of playing for such a famous team
a 2kW electric fire
a kwaai song
a kwaai dog
'Lion' begins with (an) L/'L'.
L. Windermere
S, M and L (= small, medium and large)
They drew their wagons into a laager and set up camp.
a laager mentality (= one that is not willing to accept new ideas)
science labs
a lab technician
a lab coat (= a white coat worn by scientists, etc. working in a laboratory)
The washing instructions are on the label.
price/address labels
We tested various supermarkets' own label pasta sauces (= those marked with the name of the shop/store where they are sold).
He'll only wear clothes with a designer label.
address labels
Everyone at the conference had to wear a name tag.
All babies in the hospital have name tags tied round their ankles.
What does the price tag say?
There is a £20 million price tag on the team's star player.
I hated the label 'housewife'.
the Virgin record label
It's his first release for a major label.
We carefully labelled each item with the contents and the date.
The file was labelled 'Private'.
He was labelled (as) a traitor by his former colleagues.
It is unfair to label a small baby naughty.
a research laboratory
laboratory experiments/tests
a laborious task/process
Checking all the information will be slow and laborious.
manual labour (= work using your hands)
The price will include the labour and materials.
The company wants to keep down labour costs.
The workers voted to withdraw their labour (= to stop work as a means of protest).
He was sentenced to two years in a labour camp (= a type of prison where people have to do hard physical work).
He was so exhausted from the day's labours that he went straight to bed.
a shortage of labour
Employers are using immigrants as cheap labour.
Repairs involve skilled labour, which can be expensive.
good labour relations (= the relationship between workers and employers)
Jane was in labour for ten hours.
She went into labour early.
labour pains
It was a difficult labour.
He always votes Labour.
Labour was/were in power for many years.
He was in his study labouring away over some old papers.
They laboured for years to clear their son's name.
We laboured all day in the fields.
(old-fashioned) the labouring classes (= the working class)
The horses laboured up the steep slope.
to labour under a misapprehension/delusion, etc.
He's still labouring under the impression that he's written a great book.
a skilled/an unskilled labour force
young people about to enter the labour market
the Labour Party leader
labour-intensive methods
modern labour-saving devices such as washing machines and dishwashers
a labouring job
a golden/black/chocolate Labrador
We lost our way in the labyrinth of streets.
(figurative) a labyrinth of rules and regulations
(formal) labyrinthine corridors
labyrinthine legislation
a lace handkerchief
a tablecloth edged with lace
lace curtains
Your laces are undone.
She was wearing a dress that laced up at the side.
He was sitting on the bed lacing up his shoes.
He had laced her milk with rum.
Her conversation was laced with witty asides.
They sat with their fingers laced.
a pair of lace-ups
lace-up boots
His hand had been badly lacerated.
She suffered multiple lacerations to the face.
lacy underwear
a lack of food/money/skills
The trip was cancelled through lack of (= because there was not enough) interest.
There was no lack of volunteers.
They haven't won a game yet, but it isn't for want of trying.
Some houses still lack basic amenities such as bathrooms.
He lacks confidence.
She has the determination that her brother lacks.
She's not usually lacking in confidence.
The book is completely lacking in originality.
He was taken on as a teacher but was found lacking (= was thought not to be good enough).
I feel there is something lacking in my life.
a lacklustre performance
lacklustre hair
the period of lactation
Things have changed since I was a lad.
He's a nice lad.
to go to the pub with the lads
Tony was a bit of a lad —always had an eye for the women.
passengers laden with luggage
The trees were laden with apples.
a heavily/fully laden truck
His voice was soft, yet laden with threat.
calorie-laden cream cakes
to climb up/fall off a ladder
to move up or down the social ladder
the career ladder
(BrE) to get onto the property ladder (= buy your first home)
There's a lady waiting to see you.
He was with an attractive young lady.
the ladies' golf championship
(BrE) a tea lady (= a woman who serves tea in an office)
(NAmE, approving) She's a tough lady.
a lady doctor/golfer
a doctor/a woman doctor
There's someone waiting to see you.
His wife was a real lady.
Can I take your coats, ladies?
Could I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen?
Listen, lady, don't shout at me.
the lords and ladies of the court
a lady's maid
Lady Howe
Lady Jane Grey
Could you tell me where the ladies is?
Our Lady of Lourdes
ladylike behaviour
Her language was not very ladylike.
Does Your Ladyship require anything?
Perhaps her ladyship would like to hang up her own clothes today!
The little boy lagged behind his parents.
We still lag far behind many of our competitors in using modern technology.
a pint of lager
German lagers
the Japanese language
It takes a long time to learn to speak a language well.
Italian is my first language.
All the children must learn a foreign language.
She has a good command of the Spanish language.
a qualification in language teaching
They fell in love in spite of the language barrier (= the difficulty of communicating when people speak different languages).
Why study Latin? It's a dead language (= no longer spoken by anyone).
Is English an official language in your country?
Give your instructions in everyday language.
the language of the legal profession
to have a wide/limited vocabulary
The word has become part of advertising vocabulary.
I'll try to explain in simple terms.
It was the standard form of wording for a consent letter.
medical terminology
Scientists are constantly developing new terminologies.
theories about the origins of language
a study of language acquisition in two-year-olds
bad/foul/strong language (= words that people may consider offensive)
literary/poetic language
the language of mime
the language of dolphins/bees
a programming language
a laid-back attitude to life
a laissez-faire economy
They have a laissez-faire approach to bringing up their children (= they give them a lot of freedom).
We swam in the lake.
Lake Ontario
(figurative) a wine lake (= a large supply of wine that is not being used)
We went for a walk by the lakeside.
a lakeside hotel
She really lammed into her opponent during the debate.
a leg of lamb
lamb chops
You poor lamb!
a lambswool sweater
The humour is more lame than funny.
The disease has left her with permanent lameness.
a lame-duck president/administration
They invented some lamebrain scheme to get rich quick.
'I must have made a mistake,' she said lamely.
In the poem he laments the destruction of the countryside.
She shows a lamentable lack of understanding.
her late lamented husband
the last edition of the much lamented newspaper
laminated membership cards
a table/desk/bicycle, etc. lamp
to switch on/turn off a lamp
a street lamp
an infrared/ultraviolet lamp
The guy lamped me.
I'd have lamped her one!
The car skidded and hit a lamp post.
a lamplit room
a lamplit figure in the chair
His cartoons mercilessly lampooned the politicians of his time.
to lance an abscess
Pain lanced through his body.
Lance Corporal Alan Smith
It was good to be back on land.
We made the journey by land, though flying would have been cheaper.
In the distance the crew sighted land.
The elephant is the largest living land animal.
fertile/arid/stony, etc. land
flat/undulating/hilly, etc. land
agricultural/arable/industrial, etc. land
The land was very dry and hard after the long, hot summer.
The land rose to the east.
a piece of waste/derelict land
Some of the country's richest grazing lands are in these valleys.
The price of land is rising rapidly.
During the war their lands were occupied by the enemy.
At the beginning of the 20th century almost a third of the population lived off the land (= grew or produced their own food).
Many people leave the land to find work in towns and cities.
She longed to return to her native land.
They dreamed of travelling to foreign lands.
America is the land of freedom and opportunity.
Let's wait and see how the land lies before we do anything.
Check out the lie of the land before you make a decision.
The plane landed safely.
A fly landed on his nose.
The pilot landed the plane safely.
We shall be landing shortly. Please fasten your seat belts.
The troops landed at dawn.
They were the first men to land on the moon.
The ferry is due to land at 3 o'clock.
The troops were landed by helicopter.
I fell and landed heavily at the bottom of the stairs.
A large stone landed right beside him.
Why do complaints always land on my desk (= why do I always have to deal with them)?
He's just landed a starring role in Spielberg's next movie.
She's just landed herself a company directorship.
She landed a punch on his chin.
She was arrested and landed in court.
His hot temper has landed him in trouble before.
Now you've really landed me in it!(= got me into trouble)
We travelled around for a while and landed up in Seattle.
He landed up in a ditch after he lost control of his car.
As usual, I got landed with all the boring jobs.
land-based missiles
land-based animals
the landed gentry
landed estates
After three weeks they made landfall on the coast of Ireland.
The map shows the position of the new landfills.
a landfill site
the choice of landfill or incineration
farmers and landholders
a perfect/smooth/safe landing
the first Apollo moon landing
The pilot was forced to make an emergency landing.
a landing site
Have a different landing page for each advertising campaign.
I'll call you later on the landline.
Switzerland is completely landlocked.
The Empire State Building is a familiar landmark on the New York skyline.
The ceasefire was seen as a major landmark in the fight against terrorism.
a landmark decision/ruling in the courts
private landownership
the great landowning families
the bleak/rugged/dramatic, etc. landscape of the area
the woods and fields that are typical features of the English landscape
an urban/industrial landscape
(figurative) We can expect changes in the political landscape.
an artist famous for his landscapes
Select the landscape option when printing the file.
She was expected to win by a landslide.
a landslide victory
After an hour, the ship turned landward.
winding country lanes
We drove along a muddy lane to reach the farmhouse.
The quickest way is through the back lanes behind the bus station.
Park Lane
the inside/middle lane
the northbound/southbound lane
to change lanes
She signalled and pulled over into the slow lane.
a four-lane highway
The Australian in lane four is coming up fast from behind.
a 20-lane bowling alley
one of the world's busiest shipping/sea lanes
a languid wave of the hand
a languid afternoon in the sun
He moved languidly across the room.
She continues to languish in a foreign prison.
The share price languished at 102p.
A delicious languor was stealing over him.
a languorous pace of life
I've got lank work to do.
a tall, lanky teenager
A lanyard is useful for carrying your ID card.
a whistle lanyard
lanyard headphones for use with your iPod
There's only one seat so you'll have to sit on my lap.
She sat with her hands in her lap.
the fastest lap on record
She has completed six laps.
He was overtaken on the final lap.
to do a lap of honour (= go around the track again to celebrate winning)
(NAmE) to do a victory lap
They're off on the first lap of their round-the-world tour.
We've nearly finished. We're on the last lap.
The waves lapped around our feet.
the sound of water lapping against the boat
It's a terrible movie but audiences everywhere are lapping it up.
She simply lapped up all the compliments.
The calf lapped up the bucket of milk.
in lapidary style
a lapse of concentration/memory
A momentary lapse in the final set cost her the match.
After a lapse of six months we met up again.
She had allowed her membership to lapse.
His concentration lapsed after a few minutes.
He lapsed from Judaism when he was a student.
a lapsed subscription
lapsed faith
a lapsed Catholic
to lapse into unconsciousness/a coma
She lapsed into silence again.
He soon lapsed back into his old ways.
The couple were charged with grand/petty larceny (= stealing things that are valuable/not very valuable).
His conversation was larded with Russian proverbs.
a large area/family/house/car/appetite
a large number of people
very large sums of money
He's a very large child for his age.
A large proportion of old people live alone.
Women usually do the larger share of the housework.
Brazil is the world's largest producer of coffee.
Who's the rather large (= fat) lady in the hat?
small, medium, large
a large and complex issue
Some drugs are being used on a much larger scale than previously.
If we look at the larger picture of the situation, the differences seem slight.
He's a larger than life character.
The prospect of war loomed large.
Mistrust was writ large on her face.
This is deception writ large.
large-scale development
the large-scale employment of women
the manager who is largely responsible for the team's victory
It was largely a matter of trial and error.
He resigned largely because of the stories in the press.
She is not noted for her largesse (= she is not generous).
to dispense largesse to the poor
The boys didn't mean any harm—they just did it for a lark.
Perhaps this riding lark would be more fun than she'd thought.
We were invited to a larney function.
a larney hotel
an insect in its larval stage
a lascivious person
lascivious thoughts
a laser beam
a laser navigation device
The barcodes on the products are read by lasers.
a laser show (= lasers used as entertainment)
She's had laser surgery on her eye.
The rain lashed at the windows.
Huge waves lashed the shore.
Several logs had been lashed together to make a raft.
During the storm everything on deck had to be lashed down.
The crocodile's tail was lashing furiously from side to side.
She suddenly lashed out at the boy.
In a bitter article he lashed out at his critics.
her long dark lashes
They each received 20 lashes for stealing.
(figurative) to feel the lash of sb's tongue (= to be spoken to in an angry and critical way)
a bowl of strawberries with lashings of cream
(figurative) He was given a severe tongue-lashing (= angry criticism).
We caught the last bus home.
It's the last house on the left.
She was last to arrive.
last night/Tuesday/month/summer/year
her last book
This last point is crucial.
The last time I saw him was in May.
This is our last bottle of water.
He knew this was his last hope of winning.
The last thing she needed was more work.
He's the last person I'd trust with a secret.
I haven't seen him since the summer before last.
They changed the plans at the last minute.
Don't leave your decision to the last moment.
These apartments are the last word in luxury.
They answered 'Yes,' to a man.
They were all destroyed, to the last man.
He came last in the race.
They arrived last of all.
When did you see him last?
I saw him last/I last saw him in New York two years ago.
They last won the cup in 2006.
Last but not least, I'd like to thank all the catering staff.
Sorry I'm late—am I the last?
They were the last to arrive.
That was the last I heard of him.
These are the last of our apples.
'I'll be the last to admit that I know anything about cars!', she said.
Known for their self-sufficiency, fishermen would be the last to admit to mental strain.
She finished second to last.
He died protesting his innocence to the last.
The meeting only lasted (for) a few minutes.
Each game lasts about an hour.
How long does the play last?
This weather won't last.
He's making a big effort now, and I hope it lasts.
These shoes should last you till next year.
She won't last long in that job.
Can you last (out) until I can get help?
Doctors say that she probably won't last out the night (= she will probably die before the morning).
He was injured early on and didn't last the match.
Will the coffee last out till next week?
We've got enough food to last us (for) three days.
How long do you think this storm will last?
The movie lasted over two hours.
His annoyance won't last.
We don't have enough money to last until next month.
It takes (me) at least an hour to get home from work.
How long will the flight take?
The water took ages to boil.
'Last orders, please!'
to administer the last rites to sb
to receive the last rites
She underwent a heart transplant in a last-ditch attempt to save her.
a last-gasp 2–1 victory
a last-minute holiday
Her words left a lasting impression on me.
I formed several lasting friendships at college.
The training was of no lasting value.
Lastly, I'd like to ask you about your plans.
Lastly, add the lemon juice.
He lifted the latch and opened the door.
She listened for his key in the latch.
Can you leave the door on the latch so I can get in?
It was a difficult concept to grasp, but I soon latched on.
antibodies that latch onto germs
She always latches on to the latest craze.
in the late afternoon
in late summer
She married in her late twenties (= when she was 28 or 29).
In later life he started playing golf.
The school was built in the late 1970s.
I'm sorry I'm late.
She's late for work every day.
My flight was an hour late.
We apologize for the late arrival of this train.
Because of the cold weather the crops are later this year.
Interest will be charged for late payment.
Here is a late newsflash.
Let's go home—it's getting late.
Look at the time—it's much later than I thought.
What are you doing up at this late hour?
What is the latest time I can have an appointment?
I've had too many late nights recently (= when I've gone to bed very late).
her late husband
the late Paul Newman
They apologized for the lateness of the train.
Despite the lateness of the hour, the children were not in bed.
I got up late.
Can I stay up late tonight?
She has to work late tomorrow.
The big stores are open later on Thursdays.
She married late.
The birthday card arrived three days late.
We arrived two hours late.
I haven't heard from him lately.
late in March/the afternoon
It happened late last year.
As late as (= as recently as) the 1950s, tuberculosis was still a fatal illness.
He became an author late in life.
There's a good film on late.
Late that evening, there was a knock at the door.
Share prices fell early on but rose again late in the day.
Professor Jones, late of Oxford University
I haven't seen him of late.
She's left it too late to apply for the job.
I realized the truth too late.
Sooner or later you will have to make a decision.
a late-night movie
late-night shopping
Have you seen her lately?
It's only lately that she's been well enough to go out.
(BrE) I haven't been sleeping well just lately.
She had lately returned from India.
latent disease
These children have a huge reserve of latent talent.
See you later.
I met her again three years later.
His father died later that year.
We're going to Rome later in the year.
She later became a doctor.
Later, guys!
I'm going out later on.
Much later on, she realized what he had meant.
Please arrive no later than 8 o'clock.
This is discussed in more detail in a later chapter.
The match has been postponed to a later date.
the later part of the seventeenth century
She found happiness in her later years.
We urged them to sort out the problem sooner rather than later.
the lateral branches of a tree
lateral eye movements
the latest unemployment figures
the latest craze/fashion/trend
her latest novel
Have you heard the latest news?
This is the latest in robot technology.
Have you heard the latest?
latex gloves
I lathered my face and started to shave.
Soap does not lather well in hard water.
Latin poetry
a Latin temperament
formal Latinate terms
the northern latitudes
He chose the latter option.
The latter point is the most important.
the latter half of the year
In latter years, the population has grown a lot here.
He presented two solutions. The latter seems much better.
The town has a concert hall and two theatres. The latter were both built in the 1950s.
a latter-day Robin Hood
Latterly his painting has shown a new freedom of expression.
Her health declined rapidly and latterly she never left the house.
a low wall of stone latticework
a lattice of branches
to launch an appeal/an inquiry/an investigation/a campaign
to launch an attack/invasion
a party to launch his latest novel
The new model will be launched in July.
The Navy is to launch a new warship today.
The lifeboat was launched immediately.
to launch a communications satellite
to launch a missile/rocket/torpedo
Without warning he launched himself at me.
You can launch programs and documents from your keyboard.
He launched into a lengthy account of his career.
It's time I launched out on my own.
the successful launch of the Ariane rocket
a product launch
The official launch date is in May.
a laudable aim/attempt
to laugh loudly/aloud/out loud
You never laugh at my jokes!
The show was hilarious—I couldn't stop laughing.
She always makes me laugh.
He burst out laughing (= suddenly started laughing).
She laughed to cover her nervousness.
I told him I was worried but he laughed scornfully.
'You're crazy!' she laughed.
If we win the next game we'll be laughing.
Well, I'm sorry you've lost your shoes, but you've got to laugh, haven't you?
Everybody laughs at my accent.
She is not afraid to laugh at herself (= is not too serious about herself).
He laughed off suggestions that he was going to resign.
to give a laugh
a short/nervous/hearty laugh
His first joke got the biggest laugh of the night.
Come to the karaoke night—it should be a good laugh.
And he didn't realize it was you? What a laugh!
Paula's a good laugh, isn't she?
a laugh-out-loud moment
The best scenes in the movie are laugh-out-loud funny.
his laughing blue eyes
laughing faces
I can't wear that! I'd be a laughing stock.
He laughingly agreed.
I finally reached what we laughingly call civilization.
to roar with laughter
tears/gales/peals/shrieks of laughter
to burst/dissolve into laughter
a house full of laughter (= with a happy atmosphere)
(figurative) She regards the job as a launch pad for her career in the media.
a rocket launcher
freshly laundered sheets
a pile of clean/dirty laundry
a laundry basket/room
to do the laundry
The hotel has a laundry service.
a laundry list of problems
a Nobel laureate
molten lava
There's a bathroom and a lavatory upstairs.
The nearest public lavatory is at the station.
lavender oil
lavish gifts/costumes/celebrations
They lived a very lavish lifestyle.
They rebuilt the house on an even more lavish scale than before.
He was lavish in his praise for her paintings.
lavishly illustrated
She lavishes most of her attention on her youngest son.
If they entered the building they would be breaking the law.
In Sweden it is against the law to hit a child.
Defence attorneys can use any means within the law to get their client off.
British schools are now required by law to publish their exam results.
The reforms have recently become law.
Do not think you are above the law (= think that you cannot be punished by the law).
the need for better law enforcement
(humorous) Kate's word was law in the Brown household.
company/international/tax, etc. law
the 1996 law against the hiring of illegal immigrants
The government has introduced some tough new laws on food hygiene.
strict gun laws
a federal/state law
to pass a law (= officially make it part of the system of laws)
(informal) There ought to be a law against it!
Jane is studying law.
(NAmE) He's in law school.
(BrE) He's at law school.
What made you go into law?
a law firm
Jim is always getting into trouble with the law.
the laws of the Church
The first law of kung fu is to defend yourself.
the laws of cricket
moral laws
the unspoken laws of the street
the laws of supply and demand
the law of gravity
the first law of thermodynamics
The government struggled to maintain law and order.
After the riots, the military was brought in to restore law and order.
They claim to be the party of law and order.
I'll sing if I want to—there's no law against it.
They insist on sticking to the letter of the law.
law-abiding citizens
his lawful heir
a lawfully elected government
lawless streets
the lawless days of the revolution
lawless gangs
In summer we have to mow the lawn twice a week.
a croquet lawn
He filed a lawsuit against his record company.
lax security/discipline
a lax attitude to health and safety regulations
She laid the baby down gently on the bed.
He laid a hand on my arm.
The horse laid back its ears.
Relatives laid wreaths on the grave.
The cloth should be laid flat.
She was lying on the beach.
Why don't you lie on the bed?
She had lain there all night.
to lay a carpet/cable/pipe
The foundations of the house are being laid today.
(figurative) They had laid the groundwork for future development.
Before they started they laid newspaper on the floor.
The grapes were laid to dry on racks.
The floor was laid with newspaper.
The cuckoo lays its eggs in other birds' nests.
new-laid eggs
The hens are not laying well (= not producing many eggs).
to lay the table
The bill was laid before Parliament.
to lay a responsibility/burden on sb
to lay sb under an obligation to do sth
to lay the blame on sb (= to blame sb)
Our teacher lays great stress on good spelling (= stresses it strongly).
to lay a trap for sb
She began to lay her plans for her escape.
Bad weather can upset even the best-laid plans.
He went out hoping to get laid that night.
to lay a bet
She had laid $100 on the favourite.
I'll lay you any money you like (that) he won't come.
The gang laid about him with sticks.
She laid about herself with her stick to keep the dogs off.
He laid aside his book and stood up.
(figurative) Doctors have to lay their personal feelings aside.
They had laid money aside for their old age.
She laid the book down on the table.
Both sides were urged to lay down their arms (= stop fighting).
to lay down your duties
You can't lay down hard and fast rules.
It is laid down that all candidates must submit three copies of their dissertation.
If you eat too much, the surplus is laid down as fat.
to lay in food supplies
His parents really laid into him for wasting so much money.
Lay off me will you—it's nothing to do with me.
Lay off bullying Jack.
I think you'd better lay off fatty foods for a while.
to lay on food and drink
A bus has been laid on to take guests to the airport.
Stop laying a guilt trip on me (= making me feel guilty).
He laid the map out on the table.
Lay the material out flat.
The gardens were laid out with lawns and flower beds.
a well-laid-out magazine
All the terms and conditions are laid out in the contract.
I had to lay out a fortune on a new car.
She's laid up with a broken leg.
His book explains the theory for the lay public.
a lay preacher
an easy lay (= a person who is ready and willing to have sex)
to be a great lay
The manager laid it on the line—some people would have to lose their jobs.
Praise them when necessary, but don't lay it on too thick.
He was laying the flattery on with a trowel.
George was laid to rest beside his parents.
the siege of Troy
The siege was finally lifted (= ended) after six months.
The police placed the city centre under a virtual state of siege (= it was hard to get in or out).
You could secure it on lay-by.
an eight-week lay-off with a broken leg
The announcement finally laid all the speculation about their future to rest.
A thin layer of dust covered everything.
How many layers of clothing are you wearing?
There were too many layers of management in the company.
the layers of meaning in the poem
Layer the potatoes and onions in a dish.
Her hair had been layered (= cut to several different lengths).
a book written for professionals and laymen alike
to explain sth in layman's terms (= in simple language)
the layout of streets
the magazine's attractive new page layout
The layperson cannot really understand mental illness.
We lazed by the pool all day.
I've spent the afternoon just lazing around.
They lazed away the long summer days.
He was not stupid, just lazy.
I was feeling too lazy to go out.
We spent a lazy day on the beach.
a lazy piece of work
the lazy river
She woke up and stretched lazily.
Come on, lazybones, get up!
a pocket calculator with LCD
an LCD screen
Nitrates leach from the soil into rivers.
The nutrient is quickly leached away.
If you lead, I'll follow.
He led us out into the grounds.
The receptionist led the way to the boardroom.
She led the horse back into the stable.
(figurative) I tried to lead the discussion back to the main issue.
the pipe leading from the top of the water tank
The wire led to a speaker.
A path led up the hill.
Which door leads to the yard?
The track led us through a wood.
Eating too much sugar can lead to health problems.
What led you to this conclusion?
He's too easily led (= easily persuaded to do or think sth).
This has led scientists to speculate on the existence of other galaxies.
The situation is far worse than we had been led to believe.
to lead a quiet life/a life of luxury/a miserable existence
The department led the world in cancer research.
We lead the way in space technology.
The champion is leading (her nearest rival) by 18 seconds.
to lead an expedition
to lead a discussion
Who will lead the party in the next election?
It's your turn to lead.
to lead the ten of clubs
This discussion is leading us nowhere.
narrow streets leading off from the main square
Who would like to lead off the debate?
the weeks leading up to the exam
the events leading up to the strike
to lead with your right/left
She took the lead in the second lap.
He has gone into the lead.
The Democrats now appear to be in the lead.
to hold/lose the lead
The lead car is now three minutes ahead of the rest of the field.
He managed to hold a lead of two seconds over his closest rival.
The polls have given Labour a five-point lead.
a commanding/comfortable lead
to increase/widen your lead
Manchester lost their early two-goal lead.
If one bank raises interest rates, all the others will follow their lead.
If we take the lead in this (= start to act), others may follow.
You go first, I'll take my lead from you.
The police will follow up all possible leads.
Who is playing the lead?
the male/female lead
a lead role
the lead singer in a band
Dogs must be kept on a lead in the park.
I don't think there's anything wrong with her—she's just swinging the lead.
the lead-off track on the album
a leaded roof
leaden skies
a leaden heart (= because you are sad)
a political/spiritual, etc. leader
the leader of the party
union leaders
He was not a natural leader.
She's a born leader.
She was among the leaders of the race from the start.
The company is a world leader in electrical goods.
Her sudden death left the party leaderless.
a leadership contest
The party thrived under his leadership.
leadership qualities/skills
Strong leadership is needed to captain the team.
The party leadership is/are divided.
leading experts
She was offered the leading role in the new TV series.
He played a leading part in the negotiations.
She started the last lap just behind the leading group.
These are the leading first-round scores.
at the leading edge of scientific research
leading-edge technology
She's one of the leading lights in the opera world.
lettuce/cabbage/oak leaves
The trees are just coming into leaf.
the dead leaves of autumn/the fall
a four-leaf clover
a broad-leaved plant
gold leaf
Eat plenty of leafy green vegetables.
leafy suburbs
We sat in the leafy shade of an oak tree.
a leaflet on local places of interest
We did a lot of leafleting in the area.
major league baseball
United were league champions last season.
As a painter, he is in a league of his own (= much better than others).
They're in a different league from us.
When it comes to cooking, I'm not in her league (= she is much better than me).
A house like that is out of our league (= too expensive for us).
the League of Nations
a meeting of the Women's League for Peace
a leaking pipe
The roof was leaking.
The tank had leaked a small amount of water.
Water had started to leak into the cellar.
The contents of the report were leaked to the press.
a leaked document
Details of the plan soon leaked out.
a leak in the roof
a leak in the gas pipe
a gas leak
oil leaks/leaks of oil
a leak to the press about the government plans on tax
to have/take a leak
a leakage of toxic waste into the sea
Check bottles for leakage before use.
a leaky roof
I leaned back in my chair.
The tower is leaning dangerously.
A man was leaning out of the window.
A shovel was leaning against the wall.
She walked slowly, leaning on her son's arm.
Can I lean my bike against the wall?
He leans heavily on his family.
The government has been leaning on the TV company not to broadcast the show.
The UK leant towards the US proposal.
a lean, muscular body
He was tall, lean and handsome.
a lean period/spell
The company recovered well after going through several lean years.
The changes made the company leaner and more competitive.
a lean-to garage
a leaning towards comedy rather than tragedy
a person with socialist leanings
A dolphin leapt out of the water.
We leapt over the stream.
The horse leapt a five-foot wall.
She leapt out of bed.
He leapt across the room to answer the door.
I leapt to my feet (= stood up quickly).
They leapt into action immediately.
(figurative) She was quick to leap to my defence (= speak in support of me).
The photo seemed to leap off the page (= it got your attention immediately).
His name leapt out at me (= I saw it immediately).
The shares leapt in value from 476p to close at 536p.
I leapt at the chance to go to France.
a leap of six metres
She took a flying leap and landed on the other side of the stream.
(figurative) His heart gave a sudden leap when he saw her.
(figurative) Few people successfully make the leap from television to the movies.
a leap in profits
The win allowed them to leapfrog three teams to gain second place.
to learn a language/a musical instrument/a skill
I learned a lot from my father.
You can learn a great deal just from watching other players.
She's very keen to learn about Japanese culture.
The book is about how children learn.
He's learning to dance.
Today we learnt how to use the new software.
He's learning Spanish/to swim.
She studied chemistry for three years.
In this class we'll revise/review what we did last week.
If you practise speaking English, you'll soon improve.
We only had two weeks to rehearse the play.
I learnt of her arrival from a close friend.
We were very surprised to learn (that) she had got married again.
We only learned who the new teacher was a few days ago.
How did they react when they learned the news?
It has been learned that 500 jobs are to be lost at the factory.
We have to learn one of Hamlet's speeches for school tomorrow.
I'm sure she'll learn from her mistakes.
He'll just have to learn (that) he can't always have his own way.
I soon learned not to ask too many questions.
a learned professor
a learned journal
a learned skill
a slow/quick learner
a dictionary for learners of English
learner-centred teaching methods
computer-assisted learning
Last season was a learning experience for me.
a woman of great learning
to take out a lease on a house
The lease expires/runs out next year.
Under the terms of the lease, you have to pay maintenance charges.
We lease all our computer equipment.
They lease the land from a local farmer.
A local farmer leased them the land.
Parts of the building are leased out to tenants.
car leasing
a leasing company
a leasehold property
to purchase land leasehold
to obtain/own the leasehold of a house
All dogs must be kept on a leash in public places.
Like all youngsters, he's straining at the leash to leave home.
He's the best teacher, even though he has the least experience.
She never had the least idea what to do about it.
He gave (the) least of all towards the wedding present.
How others see me is the least of my worries (= I have more important things to worry about).
It's the least I can do to help (= I feel I should do more).
Really, I'm not in the least tired.
'Do you mind if I put the television on?' 'No, not in the least.'
I was surprised, to say the least.
He always turns up just when you least expect him.
She chose the least expensive of the hotels.
I never hid the truth, least of all from you.
The documentary caused a lot of bad feeling, not least among the workers whose lives it described.
It isn't cheap to get there, leastways not at this time of year.
These days we have more money and more leisure to enjoy it.
leisure activities/interests/pursuits
a leather jacket
The soles are made of leather.
a leather-bound book
leathery skin
Come on, it's time we left.
The plane leaves for Dallas at 12.35.
I hate leaving home.
The plane leaves Heathrow at 12.35.
My secretary has threatened to leave.
(BrE) Some children leave school at 16.
She's leaving him for another man.
Leave the dishes—I'll do them later.
Why do you always leave everything until the last moment?
Leave the door open, please.
The bomb blast left 25 people dead.
Don't leave her waiting outside in the rain.
Leave the rice to cook for 20 minutes.
Red wine leaves a stain.
She left me with the impression that she was unhappy with her job.
I'm afraid you leave me no choice.
Is there any coffee left?
How many tickets do you have left?
(figurative) They are fighting to save what is left of their business.
The only course of action left to me was to notify her employer.
I've left my bag on the bus.
Don't leave any of your belongings behind.
He wasn't well, so we had to leave him behind.
Seven from ten leaves three.
He leaves a wife and two children.
She left £1 million to her daughter.
She left her daughter £1 million.
You can leave the cooking to me.
She left her assistant in charge.
Leave it with me —I'm sure I can sort it out.
'Where shall we eat?' 'I'll leave it entirely (up) to you (= you can decide).'
They left me with all the clearing up.
I was left to cope on my own.
Someone left this note for you.
Someone left you this note.
We'll never agree, so let's just leave it at that.
Dancing? I can take it or leave it.
Leaving the expense aside, do we actually need a second car?
Britain is being left behind in the race for new markets.
She knew that she had left childhood behind.
Start reading from where you left off last time.
He left off playing the piano to answer the door.
You've left off a zero.
We left him off the list.
Leave me out of this quarrel, please.
He hadn't been asked to the party and was feeling very left out.
She left out an 'm' in 'accommodation'.
to take a month's paid/unpaid leave
soldiers home on leave
to be on maternity/study leave
How much annual leave do you get?
to be absent without leave
The court granted him leave to appeal against the sentence.
She asked for leave of absence (= permission to be away from work) to attend a funeral.
With a nod and a smile, she took leave of her friends.
Such a traumatic experience was bound to leave its mark on the children.
When it comes to other people's arguments, it's better to leave well alone.
Fewer people write with their left hand than with their right.
I broke my left leg.
the left side of the field
The university is on the left bank of the river.
Take a left turn at the intersection.
(sport 体育) a left back/wing
a left hook
Turn left at the intersection.
Look left and right before you cross the road.
She owes money right and left.
She was sitting on my left.
Twist your body to the left, then to the right.
Take the next road on the left.
To the left of the library is the bank.
Take the first left.
(BrE) to take a left
(NAmE) to hang/make a left
The Left only has/have a small chance of winning power.
a left-leaning newspaper
She is on the far left of the party.
He hit him with two sharp lefts.
(figurative) A few jokes add leaven to a boring speech.
Her speech was leavened with a touch of humour.
school-leavers
to deliver/give a lecture to first-year students
to attend a series of lectures on Jane Austen
a lecture room/hall
I know I should stop smoking—don't give me a lecture about it.
She lectures in Russian literature.
He's always lecturing me about the way I dress.
She's a superb lecturer.
He's a lecturer in French at Oxford.
a lectureship in media studies
a consumer-led society
student-led activities
A single red LED shows that the power is switched on.
seabirds nesting on rocky ledges
She put the vase of flowers on the window ledge.
the legend of Robin Hood
the heroes of Greek legend
Legend has it that the lake was formed by the tears of a god.
a jazz/tennis, etc. legend
She was a legend in her own lifetime.
Many of golf's living legends were playing.
a legendary figure
the legendary Bob Dylan
Her patience and tact are legendary.
legendary heroes
to enter figures in the purchase/sales ledger
The government will legislate against discrimination in the workplace.
(figurative) You can't legislate against bad luck!
They promised to legislate to protect people's right to privacy.
a legislative assembly/body/council
legislative powers
He looked at her with an evil leer.
The government is leery of changing the current law.
a harbour on the leeward side of the island
How much leeway should parents give their children?
The governor is way out/over in left field.
on the left wing of the party
a left-field comedy drama
the left-hand side of the street
the top left-hand corner of the page
a tennis player with a left-hand grip
a left-hand glove
a left-handed golfer
I'm left-handed.
left-handed scissors
a left-handed serve
She writes left-handed.
left-wing groups
a Labour left-winger
a lefty feminist lecturer
leftist groups
He's a leftover from the hippies in the 1960s.
Use any leftover meat to make a curry.
to move your eyes in a leftward direction
a leftward swing in public opinion
I broke my leg playing football.
How many legs does a centipede have?
front/back legs
forelegs/hind legs
a wooden leg
frogs' legs
chicken legs
roast leg of lamb
a trouser/pant leg
These jeans are too long in the leg.
a chair leg
a three-legged stool
a long-legged insect
Without written evidence, we don't have a leg to stand on.
It was good to get out of the car and stretch our legs.
We saw the police coming and legged it down the road.
They each received a legacy of $5 000.
Future generations will be left with a legacy of pollution and destruction.
How can we integrate new technology with our legacy systems?
legacy hardware/software
the legal profession/system
to take/seek legal advice
a legal adviser
legal costs
The driver was more than three times over the legal limit (= the amount of alcohol you are allowed to have in your body when you are driving).
Should euthanasia be made legal?
a legally binding agreement
to be legally responsible for sb/sth
to take/begin legal action against sb
They have threatened us with legal action.
a legalistic approach to family disputes
They intended to challenge the legality of his claim in the courts.
The arrangement is of doubtful legality.
The government does not recognize the legality of this court.
You need a lawyer to explain all the legalities of the contracts.
a papal legate
a tall leggy schoolgirl
a pair of leggings
legible handwriting
The signature was still legible.
a legitimate grievance
It seemed a perfectly legitimate question.
Politicians are legitimate targets for satire.
the legitimate government of the country
Is his business strictly legitimate?
the dubious legitimacy of her argument
I intend to challenge the legitimacy of his claim.
She can now legitimately claim to be the best in the world.
the French Foreign Legion
Caesar's legions
legions of photographers
The medical uses of herbs are legion.
an important piece of legislation
New legislation on the sale of drugs will be introduced next year.
Legislation will be difficult and will take time.
a democratically elected legislature
the national/state legislature
The business seems legit.
The movie has been criticized for apparently legitimizing violence.
This room is twice the length of the kitchen.
The river is 300 miles in length.
The snake usually reaches a length of 100 cm.
He ran the entire length of the beach (= from one end to the other).
Did you see the length of his hair?
We discussed shortening the length of the course.
He was disgusted at the length of time he had to wait.
She got a headache if she had to read for any length of time (= for a long time).
Size of pension depends partly on length of service with the company.
Each class is 45 minutes in length.
Her novels vary in length.
shoulder-length hair
He swims 50 lengths a day.
The horse won by two clear lengths.
a length of rope/string/wire
the leisured classes
a leisurely meal
They set off at a leisurely pace.
Couples strolled leisurely along the beach.
It was lekker to see you again.
a lekker meal
I'm lekker full.
Lemming-like we rushed into certain disaster.
lemon tea
a gin and tonic with ice and lemon
Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over the fish.
a lemon tree
a lemony flavour
I've lent the car to a friend.
Can you lend me your car this evening?
Has he returned that book you lent him?
The bank refused to lend the money to us.
They refused to lend us the money.
The setting sun lent an air of melancholy to the scene.
Her presence lent the occasion a certain dignity.
I was more than happy to lend my support to such a good cause.
He came along to lend me moral support.
I went over to see if I could lend a hand.
I am more than happy to lend my name to this campaign.
This latest evidence lends support to her theory.
Her voice doesn't really lend itself well to blues singing.
Lending by banks rose to $10 billion last year.
lengthy delays
the lengthy process of obtaining a visa
a lengthy explanation
The afternoon shadows lengthened.
I need to lengthen this skirt.
Cut the banana in half lengthways.
a lenient sentence/fine
The judge was far too lenient with him.
She appealed to the judge for leniency.
to treat sb leniently
a pair of glasses with tinted lenses
a camera with an adjustable lens
a lens cap/cover
Have you got your lenses in?
schools with large numbers of LEP children
lesbians and gays
the lesbian and gay community
a lesbian relationship
skin/brain lesions
less butter/time/importance
He was advised to smoke fewer cigarettes and drink less beer.
We have less to worry about now.
It is less of a problem than I'd expected.
We'll be there in less than no time (= very soon).
The victory was nothing less than a miracle.
There were less cars on the road then.
As time passed, she saw less and less of all her old friends at home.
His simple, elegant paintings reflect his principle that less is more.
She's having lunch with the Director, no less.
The guide contains details of no less than 115 hiking routes.
less expensive/likely/intelligent
less often/enthusiastically
I read much less now than I used to.
The receptionist was less than (= not at all) helpful.
She wasn't any the less happy for (= she was perfectly happy) being on her own.
That this is a positive stereotype makes it no less a stereotype, and therefore unacceptable.
She found the job less and less attractive.
I've more or less finished the book.
She could earn $200 a night, more or less.
a monthly salary of $2 000 less tax and insurance
The noise began to lessen.
to lessen the risk/impact/effect of sth
a lessening of tension
people of lesser importance
They were all involved to a greater or lesser degree (= some were more involved than others).
The law was designed to protect wives, and, to a lesser extent, children.
He was encouraged to plead guilty to the lesser offence.
one of the lesser-known Caribbean islands
She gives piano lessons.
All new students are given lessons in/on how to use the library.
I'm having/taking driving lessons.
(especially BrE) Our first lesson on Tuesdays is French.
(especially BrE) What did we do last lesson?
The course book is divided into 30 lessons.
Other countries can teach us a lesson or two on industrial policy.
a salutary lesson
The accident taught me a lesson I'll never forget.
Let that be a lesson to you (= so that you do not make the same mistake again).
He gripped his brother's arm lest he be trampled by the mob.
She was afraid lest she had revealed too much.
Let them splash around in the pool for a while.
Don't let her upset you.
Let your body relax.
He'd eat chocolate all day long if I let him.
They won't let him leave the country.
She wanted to lend me some money but I wouldn't let her.
to let sb into the house
I'll give you a key so that you can let yourself in.
Please let me past.
The cat wants to be let out.
Let's go to the beach.
Let's not tell her what we did.
(BrE) Don't let's tell her what we did.
I don't think we'll make it, but let's try anyway.
'Shall we check it again?' 'Yes, let's.'
Here, let me do it.
Let us get those boxes down for you.
Let me have your report by Friday.
If he thinks he can cheat me, just let him try!
Let her come home safely!
Let me give you an example.
Let me just finish this and then I'll come.
Let line AB be equal to line CD.
I let the spare room.
They decided to let out the smaller offices at low rents.
She let fall a further heavy hint.
Will they let the hostages go?
They're having to let 100 employees go because of falling profits.
I'm afraid I've let the garden go this year.
Come on, enjoy yourself, let yourself go!
He has let himself go since he lost his job.
I don't entirely agree, but I'll let it go at that.
I thought she was hinting at something, but I let it go.
I can let you have it for, well let's say £100.
I'm afraid she let us down badly.
This machine won't let you down.
He trudged home feeling lonely and let down.
She speaks French very fluently, but her pronunciation lets her down.
We let the bucket down by a rope.
Some kids had let my tyres down.
I volunteered to help, and then I thought 'Oh no, what have I let myself in for!'
Are you going to let them in on your plans?
a window let into a wall
They let us off lightly.
She was let off with a warning.
He let us off homework today.
The boys were letting off fireworks.
I'm getting married next week, but please don't let on to anyone.
She let on that she was leaving.
The movie has just let out.
They think the attacker was very tall—so that lets you out.
to let out a scream of terror
to let out a gasp of delight
The pain finally let up.
We mustn't let up now.
a long-term/short-term let
a loose button/tooth
Check that the plug has not come loose.
She usually wears her hair loose.
The potatoes were sold loose, not in bags.
The sheep had got out and were loose on the road.
The horse had broken loose (= escaped) from its tether.
During the night, somebody had cut the boat loose from its moorings.
a loose shirt
loose soil
a fabric with a loose weave
a loose alliance/coalition/federation
a loose translation
loose thinking
a young man of loose morals
He pounced on a loose ball.
a baby with loose bowel movements
Teenagers need a place to let loose.
She let loose a stream of abuse.
She let her hair loose and it fell around her shoulders.
Who's let the dog loose?
He was at last let loose in the kitchen.
A team of professionals were let loose on the project.
His speech loosed a tide of nationalist sentiment.
He loosed the straps that bound her arms.
Three prisoners are still on the loose.
Now let me see—how old is she now?
Once on the open road, he let rip.
Come on Steve—let her rip.
This would cause inflation to let rip again.
When she gets angry with her boyfriend, she really lets rip at him.
The group let rip with a single from their new album.
I happened to let it slip that he had given me £1 000 for the car.
She tried not to let slip what she knew.
Good—we have a let-out now.
a let-out clause (= in a contract)
There is no sign of a let-up in the recession.
Let's break for lunch.
a lethal dose of poison
a lethal weapon
(figurative) The closure of the factory dealt a lethal blow to the town.
You and that car—it's a lethal combination!
The weather made her lethargic.
a business/thank-you, etc. letter
(BrE) to post a letter
(NAmE) to mail a letter
There's a letter for you from your mother.
You will be notified by letter.
'B' is the second letter of the alphabet.
Write your name in capital/block letters.
I followed your instructions to the letter.
the stars lettered Alpha and Beta
a black banner lettered in white
a letterboxed edition
Gothic lettering
holiday lettings
a bacon, lettuce and tomato sandwich
Buy a lettuce and some tomatoes.
Lieutenant Paul Fisher
a lieutenant colonel
a test that checks the level of alcohol in the blood
a relatively low/high level of crime
low/high pollution levels
Profits were at the same level as the year before.
a high level of achievement
a computer game with 15 levels
What is the level of this course?
He studied French to degree level.
Both players are on a level (= of the same standard).
I refuse to sink to their level (= behave as badly as them).
a decision taken at board level
Discussions are currently being held at national level.
On a more personal level, I would like to thank Jean for all the help she has given me.
Fables can be understood on various levels.
the level of water in the bottle
The cables are buried one metre below ground level.
The floodwater nearly reached roof level.
The tables are not on a level (= the same height).
The library is all on one level.
Archaeologists found pottery in the lowest level of the site.
a multi-level parking lot
I'm not convinced he's on the level.
Are you sure this deal is on the level?
Pitch the tent on level ground.
Add a level tablespoon of flour (= enough to fill the spoon but not so much that it goes above the level of the edge of the spoon).
Are these pictures level?
This latest rise is intended to keep wages level with inflation.
She drew level with (= came beside) the police car.
A good second round brought him level with the tournament leader.
France took an early lead but Wales soon drew level (= scored the same number of points).
a level gaze
If you're laying tiles, the floor will need to be levelled first.
The blast levelled several buildings in the area.
Davies levelled the score at 2 all.
I had a gun levelled at my head.
The speech was intended to answer the charges levelled against him by his opponents.
Teachers are accused of levelling standards down to suit the needs of less able students.
The plane levelled off at 1 500 feet.
After the long hill, the road levelled out.
Sales have levelled off after a period of rapid growth.
death, the great leveller
She looked at him levelly.
Pull the lever towards you to adjust the speed.
The threat of sanctions is our most powerful lever for peace.
I levered the lid off the pot with a knife.
They managed to lever the door open.
diplomatic leverage
The company needs to leverage its resources.
the leviathan of government bureaucracy
to put/impose a levy on oil imports
a tax levied by the government on excess company profits
lewd behaviour/jokes/suggestions
lexical items (= words and phrases)
the lexicon of finance and economics
a lexicon of technical scientific terms
The company cannot accept liability for any damage caused by natural disasters.
Since his injury, Jones has become more of a liability than an asset to the team.
The company is reported to have liabilities of nearly $90 000.
You will be liable for any damage caused.
The court ruled he could not be held personally liable for his wife's debts.
We're all liable to make mistakes when we're tired.
The bridge is liable to collapse at any moment.
You are more liable to injury if you exercise infrequently.
Offenders are liable to fines of up to $500.
People who earn under a certain amount are not liable to pay tax.
He had to liaise directly with the police while writing the report.
Her job is to liaise between students and teachers.
Our role is to ensure liaison between schools and parents.
We work in close liaison with the police.
the White House liaison to organized labor
women's lib
I voted Lib Dem.
a public/reference/university, etc. library
a library book
a toy library (= for borrowing toys from)
a new edition to add to your library
a library of children's classics
He sued the newspaper for libel.
a libel action (= a case in a court of law)
He claimed he had been libelled in an article the magazine had published.
a libellous statement
liberal attitudes/views/opinions
Some politicians want more liberal trade relations with Europe.
liberal democracy
liberal theories
a liberal politician
She is very liberal with her money.
I think Sam is too liberal with his criticism (= he criticizes people too much).
a liberal education
a liberal translation of the text
a liberal interpretation of the law
Apply the cream liberally.
The word 'original' is liberally interpreted in copyright law.
Reform is popular with middle-class liberals.
The city was liberated by the advancing army.
Writing poetry liberated her from the routine of everyday life.
a war of liberation
liberation from poverty
women's liberation
the fight for justice and liberty
He had to endure six months' loss of liberty.
The right to vote should be a liberty enjoyed by all.
People fear that security cameras could infringe personal liberties.
He took the liberty of reading my files while I was away.
They've got a liberty, not even sending me a reply.
The movie takes considerable liberties with the novel that it is based on.
linguistic and cultural barriers
a child's innate linguistic ability
new developments in linguistic theory
a course in applied linguistics
loss of libido
a degree in librarianship
a driving licence
James lost his licence for six months (= had his licence taken away by the police as a punishment).
a licence for the software
Is there a licence fee?
You need a licence to fish in this river.
a licence holder (= a person who has been given a licence)
Lack of punishment seems to give youngsters licence to break the law.
The new drug has not yet been licensed in the US.
(BrE) licensing hours (= the times when alcohol can be sold at a pub, etc.)
They had licensed the firm to produce the drug.
a driver's license
a license for the software
a license holder (= a person who has been given a license)
a licensed restaurant
Is that gun licensed?
She is licensed to fly solo.
He licked his fingers.
I'm tired of licking envelopes.
The cat sat licking its paws.
She licked the spoon clean.
The cat licked up the milk.
She licked the honey off the spoon.
Flames were soon licking the curtains.
The flames were now licking at their feet.
We thought we had them licked.
It was a tricky problem but I think we've licked it.
They were licking their lips at the thought of clinching the deal.
Can I have a lick of your ice cream?
What this room needs is a lick of paint.
a guitar/blues lick
a dustbin lid
I can't get the lid off this jar.
heavily-lidded eyes
his lidded gaze
to lie on your back/side/front
The cat was lying fast asleep by the fire.
Clothes were lying all over the floor.
The book lay open on his desk.
Snow was lying thick on the ground.
These machines have lain idle since the factory closed.
a ship lying at anchor
I'd rather use my money than leave it lying in the bank.
The town lies on the coast.
The valley lay below us.
The problem lies in deciding when to intervene.
Thompson is lying in fourth place.
After five games the German team are lying second.
You are young and your whole life lies ahead of you.
He was surrounded by reporters who had been lying in wait for him.
Don't leave toys lying around—someone might trip over them.
You don't have to do anything—just lie back and enjoy the ride.
What lay behind this strange outburst?
Go and lie down for a while.
He lay down on the sofa and soon fell asleep.
It's a holiday tomorrow, so you can lie in.
It lies with you to accept or reject the proposals.
You could see from his face that he was lying.
Don't lie to me!
She lies about her age.
The camera cannot lie (= give a false impression).
The witness was clearly lying through his teeth.
to tell a lie
The whole story is nothing but a pack of lies.
a barefaced lie (= a lie that is deliberate and shocking)
I would as lief kill myself as betray my master.
She's wearing a dress like mine.
He's very like his father.
She looks nothing like (= not at all like) her mother.
That sounds like (= I think I can hear) him coming now.
What's it like studying in Spain?
This new girlfriend of his—what's she like?
It's just like her to tell everyone about it.
Students were angry at being treated like children.
He ran like the wind (= very fast).
You do it like this.
I, like everyone else, had read these stories in the press.
Don't look at me like that.
(informal) The candles are arranged like so (= in this way).
anti-utopian novels like 'Animal Farm' and '1984'
He believes the figure should be more like $10 million.
This is more like it! Real food—not that canned muck.
Just talking? Arguing more like it.
Oh, what am I like? I just completely forgot it.
Which tie do you like best?
How did you like Japan (= did you find it pleasant)?
I don't like the way he's looking at me.
You've got to go to school, whether you like it or not.
She's never liked swimming.
I didn't like him taking all the credit.
(formal) I didn't like his taking all the credit.
I like it when you do that.
At weekends I like to sleep late.
I like my coffee strong.
Do what you like—I don't care.
You can dye your hair whatever colour you like.
I didn't like to disturb you.
He doesn't like asking his parents for help.
Would you like a drink?
I'd like to think it over.
Would you like to come with us?
(formal) We would like to apologize for the delay.
How can they afford it? That's what I'd like to know.
We'd like you to come and visit us.
(NAmE) I'd like for us to work together.
By the next morning, over twenty of my friends had liked my new profile picture.
You get paid to eat chocolate. So what's not to like?
No one sings the blues like she did.
It didn't turn out like I intended.
Like I said (= as I said before), you're always welcome to stay.
She acts like she owns the place.
We all have different likes and dislikes.
jazz, rock and the like (= similar types of music)
a man whose like we shall not see again
You're not comparing like with like.
She didn't want to associate with the likes of me.
The band now has thousands of likes.
a chance to meet people of like mind (= with similar interests and opinions)
She responded in like manner.
It was, like, weird.
It was kind of scary, like.
It's really hard. Like I have no time for my own work.
I'm leaving in like twenty minutes.
It's going to cost like a hundred dollars.
And then I'm like 'No Way!'
There was silence, but not like before.
life and death
The body was cold and showed no signs of life.
My father died last year—I wish I could bring him back to life.
In spring the countryside bursts into life.
The floods caused a massive loss of life (= many people were killed).
He risked his life to save his daughter from the fire.
Hundreds of lives were threatened when the building collapsed.
The operation saved her life.
My grandfather lost his life (= was killed) in the war.
Several attempts have been made on the President's life (= several people have tried to kill him).
plant/animal life
marine/pond life
Is there intelligent life on other planets?
He's lived here all his life.
I've lived in England for most of my life.
to have a long/short life
He became very weak towards the end of his life.
Brenda took up tennis late in life.
He will spend the rest of his life (= until he dies) in a wheelchair.
There's no such thing as a job for life any longer.
She is a life member of the club.
in early/adult life
She has been an accountant all her working life.
He met a lot of interesting people during his life as a student.
They were very happy throughout their married life.
The International Stock Exchange started life as a London coffee shop.
They could see that the company had a limited life (= it was going to close).
In Italy the average life of a government is eleven months.
The judge gave him life.
the worries of everyday life
He is young and has little experience of life.
Commuting is a part of daily life for many people.
Jill wants to travel and see life for herself.
We bought a dishwasher to make life easier.
In London life can be hard.
In real life (= when she met him) he wasn't how she had imagined him at all.
Life isn't like in the movies, you know.
country/city life
She enjoyed political life.
family/married life
How do you find life in Japan?
He has had a good life.
a hard/an easy life
My day-to-day life is not very exciting.
a life of luxury
Her daily life involved meeting lots of people.
Many of these children have led very sheltered lives (= they have not had many different experiences).
They emigrated to start a new life in Canada.
He doesn't like to talk about his private life.
She has a full social life.
articles about the love lives of the stars
This is a great holiday resort that is full of life.
She had lessons in drawing from life.
a life class (= one in which art students draw a naked man or woman)
She wrote a life of Mozart.
He's lost two lives, so he's only got one left.
He can't interview people to save his life.
the life cycle of the butterfly
He looked very ill—his life force seemed to have drained away.
In Hindi philosophy the life force is known as prana.
a life insurance policy
Families want the right to refuse life support.
She's critically ill, on life support.
a life-and-death decision/struggle
a life-saving heart operation
a life-saving qualification
a life-size statue
He was put on a life-support machine in intensive care.
His heart condition is not life-threatening.
Tourism is the lifeblood of the city.
a lifeboat crew/station
lifeless machines
a lifeless planet
his lifeless performance on stage
a lifelike statue/drawing/toy
The extra payments are a lifeline for most single mothers.
The new drug is a potential lifesaver.
Worms have a lifespan of a few months.
a comfortable/healthy/lavish, etc. lifestyle
It was a big change in lifestyle when we moved to the country.
the lifestyle section of the newspaper (= the part which deals with clothes, furniture, hobbies, etc.)
His diary was not published during his lifetime.
a lifetime of experience
in the lifetime of the present government
An opportunity like this comes once in a lifetime.
a once-in-a-lifetime experience
He stood there with his arms lifted above his head.
I lifted the lid of the box and peered in.
(figurative) John lifted his eyes (= looked up) from his book.
Her eyebrows lifted. 'Apologize? Why?'
I lifted the baby out of the chair.
He lifted the suitcase down from the rack.
The survivors were lifted to safety by helicopter.
to lift a ban/curfew/blockade
Martial law has now been lifted.
His heart lifted at the sight of her.
The news lifted our spirits.
The fog began to lift.
(figurative) Gradually my depression started to lift.
He had been lifting electrical goods from the store where he worked.
She lifted most of the ideas from a book she had been reading.
to lift potatoes
Interest rates were lifted yesterday.
It's on the sixth floor—let's take the lift.
I'll give you a lift to the station.
She hitched a lift on a truck.
Passing the exam gave him a real lift.
the puzzled lift of his eyebrows
Ten minutes to lift-off.
I've torn a ligament.
bright/dim light
a room with good natural light
in the fading light of a summer's evening
The light was beginning to fail (= it was beginning to get dark).
She could just see by the light of the candle.
Bring it into the light so I can see it.
a beam/ray of light
The knife gleamed as it caught the light (= as the light shone on it).
A cold grey light crept under the curtains.
to turn/switch the lights on/off
to turn out the light(s)
Suddenly all the lights went out.
It was an hour before the lights came on again.
to turn down/dim the lights
A light was still burning in the bedroom.
ceiling/wall lights
Keep going—the lights (= traffic lights) are green.
Check your car before you drive to make sure that your lights are working.
(BrE) Have you got a light?
(NAmE, BrE) Do you have a light?
There was a soft light in her eyes as she looked at him.
the artist's use of light and shade
leaded lights
the lighting system
the movie's interesting lighting effects
The lighting at the disco was fantastic.
He's written a lot of good material that has never seen the light of day.
A spark from the fire had set light to a rug.
We'll leave in the morning as soon as it's light.
It gets light at about 5 o'clock.
It was a light spacious apartment at the top of the building.
light blue eyes
Lighter shades suit you best.
People with pale complexions should avoid wearing light colours.
Modern phones are light and easy to carry.
Carry this bag—it's the lightest.
He's lost a lot of weight—he's three kilos lighter than he was.
The little girl was as light as a feather.
The aluminium body is 12% lighter than if built with steel.
light summer clothes
Only light vehicles are allowed over the old bridge.
The delivery of potatoes was several kilos light.
She felt a light tap on her shoulder.
the sound of quick light footsteps
You only need to apply light pressure.
As a boxer, he was always light on his feet (= quick and elegant in the way he moved).
After his accident he was moved to lighter work.
some light housework
You are probably well enough to take a little light exercise.
light traffic
The forecast is for light showers.
light winds
Trading on the stock exchange was light today.
He was convicted of assaulting a police officer but he got off with a light sentence.
light reading for the beach
a concert of light classical music
She kept her tone light.
This programme looks at the lighter side of politics.
We all needed a little light relief at the end of a long day (= something amusing or entertaining that comes after sth serious or boring).
On a lighter note, we end the news today with a story about a duck called Quackers.
I left the island with a light heart.
a light supper/snack
I just want something light for lunch.
Stick to a light diet.
This pastry is so light.
a light beer
I don't like my coffee too light.
She drifted into a light sleep.
I've always been a light sleeper.
She lit a candle.
The candles were lit.
I put a lighted match to the letter and watched it burn.
The fire wouldn't light.
The stage was lit by bright spotlights.
well/badly lit streets
Our way was lit by a full moon.
His eye lit upon a small boat on the horizon.
They all lit up as soon as he left the room.
He sat back and lit up a cigarette.
There was an explosion and the whole sky lit up.
His eyes lit up when she walked into the room.
A smile lit up her face.
The nearest star to earth is about 4 light years away.
Full employment still seems light years away.
After four glasses of wine he began to feel light-headed.
a light-hearted speech
She felt light-hearted and optimistic.
equipment to lighten the load of domestic work
The measures will lighten the tax burden on small businesses.
The sky began to lighten in the east.
Use bleach to lighten the wood.
My mood gradually lightened.
She told a joke to lighten the atmosphere.
Come on, John. Lighten up!
electric/natural lighting
good/poor lighting
The play had excellent sound and lighting effects.
the cost of heating and lighting
street lighting
He kissed her lightly on the cheek.
It began to snow lightly.
She tended to sleep lightly nowadays (= it was easy to disturb her).
I try to eat lightly (= not to eat heavy or greasy food).
'I'll be all right,' he said lightly.
This is not a problem we should take lightly.
a violent storm with thunder and lightning
He was struck by lightning and killed.
Lightning strikes caused scores of fires across the state.
a lightweight jacket
a lightweight book
He was considered too lightweight for the job.
a lightweight champion
a political lightweight
He's an intellectual lightweight (= he does not think very deeply or seriously).
He flew out of the room like a man possessed.
If I had the chance to go there, I'd go like a shot.
I woke up feeling like shit.
We get treated like shit in this job.
He spends money like water.
a very likeable man
the most likely outcome
Tickets are likely to be expensive.
It's more than likely that the thieves don't know how much it is worth.
They might refuse to let us do it, but it's hardly likely.
It's pretty much inevitable that prices will go up this year.
I think it's likely to rain this afternoon.
I'm probably going to be away then.
I guess there's a fifty per cent chance that they'll say no.
It's unlikely, but not totally impossible, I suppose.
They can't possibly/really be serious about buying a boat!
Let's start without them. They're bound to be late.
She seems the most likely candidate for the job.
Me? Join the army? Not likely!
There is very little likelihood of that happening.
In all likelihood (= very probably) the meeting will be cancelled.
The likelihood is that (= it is likely that) unemployment figures will continue to fall.
Life is often likened to a journey.
Joanna bears a strong likeness to her father.
Do you notice any family likeness between them?
The drawing is said to be a good likeness of the girl's attacker.
He voted for the change and he expected his colleagues to do likewise.
Her second marriage was likewise unhappy.
'Let me know if you ever need any help.' 'Likewise.'
He had a liking for fast cars.
She had taken a liking to him on their first meeting.
The coffee was just to his liking.
a lilac dress
Her voice had a soft Welsh lilt to it.
lily-white skin
They want me to conform, to be lily-white.
an artificial limb
For a while, she lost the use of her limbs.
long-limbed
loose-limbed
Are you prepared to go out on a limb (= risk doing sth that other people are not prepared to do) and make your suspicions public?
the limbo of the stateless person
His life seemed stuck in limbo; he could not go forward and he could not go back.
lime juice
slices of lime
an avenue of limes
to be in the limelight
to stay out of the limelight
to steal/hog the limelight (= take attention away from other people)
There is a limit to the amount of pain we can bear.
The team performed to the limit of its capabilities.
She knew the limits of her power.
to push/stretch/test sb/sth to the limit
His arrogance knew (= had) no limits.
a time/speed/age limit
The EU has set strict limits on levels of pollution.
They were travelling at a speed that was double the legal limit.
You can't drive—you're over the limit (= you have drunk more alcohol than is legal when driving).
We were reaching the limits of civilization.
the city limits (= the imaginary line which officially divides the city from the area outside)
I'm willing to help, within limits.
With a talent like his, the sky's the limit.
measures to limit carbon dioxide emissions from cars
The amount of money you have to spend will limit your choice.
Families are limited to four free tickets each.
I've limited myself to 1 000 calories a day to try and lose weight.
Violent crime is not limited to big cities.
The teaching of history should not be limited to dates and figures.
to impose limitations on imports
Disability is a physical limitation on your life.
This technique is useful but it has its limitations.
We are doing our best with the limited resources available.
This offer is for a limited period only.
Lack of cash is a limiting factor.
the limitless variety of consumer products
The possibilities were almost limitless.
a long black chauffeur-driven limousine
His hand went limp and the knife clattered to the ground.
She felt limp and exhausted.
The hat had become limp and shapeless.
Her hair hung limply over her forehead.
She had twisted her ankle and was limping.
Matt limped painfully off the field.
The plane limped back to the airport.
(figurative) The government was limping along in its usual way.
to walk with a slight/pronounced limp
The Prime Minister clung to his job like a limpet, despite calls for him to resign.
limpid eyes/water
cough linctus
a straight/wavy/dotted/diagonal line
a vertical/horizontal line
parallel lines
Draw a thick black line across the page.
The ball went over the line.
Be careful not to cross the line (= the broken line painted down the middle of the road).
Your feet must be behind the line when you serve (= in tennis ).
They were all waiting on the starting line.
He has fine lines around his eyes.
He was convicted of illegally importing weapons across state lines.
a district/county line
lines of longitude and latitude
We want to cut across lines of race, sex and religion.
There is a fine line between showing interest in what someone is doing and interfering in it.
He traced the line of her jaw with his finger.
a beautiful sports car with sleek lines
a long line of trees
The children all stood in a line.
They were stuck in a line of traffic.
to stand/wait in line for sth
A line formed at each teller window.
She came from a long line of doctors.
to pass sth down through the male/female line
This novel is the latest in a long line of thrillers that he has written.
Orders came down the line from the very top.
a line of command
He is second in line to the chairman.
to be next in line to the throne
Look at line 5 of the text.
Write the title of your essay on the top line.
I can only remember the first two lines of that song.
to learn your lines
a line from the film 'Casablanca'
Don't give me that line about having to work late again.
(BrE) That's the worst chat-up line I've ever heard.
a fishing line
He hung the towels out on the line (= clothes line).
They dropped the sails and threw a line to a man on the dock.
Your bill includes line rental.
The company's lines have been jammed (= busy) all day with people making complaints.
I was talking to John when the line suddenly went dead.
If you hold the line (= stay on the telephone and wait), I'll see if she is available.
The train was delayed because a tree had fallen across the line.
a branch line
the East Coast line
Just keep going in a straight line; you can't miss it.
The town is in a direct line between London and the coast.
Please move; you're right in my line of vision (= the direction I am looking in).
They followed the line of the river for three miles.
Be careful to stay out of the line of fire (= the direction sb is shooting in).
Their aim was to block guerrilla supply lines.
The government is taking a firm line on terrorism.
He supported the official line on education.
I don't follow your line of reasoning.
She decided to try a different line of argument (= way of persuading sb of sth).
sb's first line of attack/defence
The police are pursuing a new line of enquiry/inquiry (= way of finding out information).
My line of work pays pretty well.
You can't do much in the art line without training.
We are starting a new line in casual clothes.
Some lines sell better than others.
a shipping/bus line
The regiment was sent to fight in the front line (= the position nearest the enemy).
They were trapped behind enemy lines (= in the area controlled by the enemy).
London prices are way out of line with the rest of the country.
Reading between the lines, I think Clare needs money.
to toe the party line
Line the pan with greaseproof paper.
the membranes that line the nose
Crowds of people lined the streets to watch the race.
The walls were lined with books.
Line up, children!
Cars lined up waiting to board the ship.
The suspects were lined up against the wall.
He lined the bottles up along the shelf.
Mark had a job lined up when he left college.
I've got a lot lined up this week (= I'm very busy).
She's lined up a live band for the party.
Review your training needs with your line manager.
There was a column directly in my line of sight, so I could only see half the stage.
We sell only line-caught wild fish.
an impressive line-up of speakers
the starting line-up (= the players who will begin the game)
A horror movie completes this evening's TV line-up.
a lineal descendant of the company's founder
In his art he broke the laws of scientific linear perspective.
Students do not always progress in a linear fashion.
linear measurement (= for example metres, feet, etc.)
linear equations
She abandoned the linearity of the conventional novel.
a deeply lined face
Lined paper helps keep handwriting neat.
a lined skirt
a tree-lined road
a linen tablecloth
(BrE) a linen cupboard
(NAmE) a linen closet
an ocean liner
a luxury cruise liner
bin/nappy liners
The faint smell of her perfume lingered in the room.
The civil war lingered on well into the 1930s.
She lingered for a few minutes to talk to Nick.
We lingered over breakfast on the terrace.
His eyes lingered on the diamond ring on her finger.
He lingered on for several months after the heart attack.
a painful and lingering death
a last lingering look
lingering doubts
a lingering smell of machine oil
He doesn't speak the lingo.
baseball lingo
English has become a lingua franca in many parts of the world.
She's an excellent linguist.
I'm afraid I'm no linguist (= I find foreign languages difficult).
a pair of leather gloves with fur linings
the stomach lining
Police suspect there may be a link between the two murders.
evidence for a strong causal link between exposure to sun and skin cancer
to establish trade links with Asia
Social customs provide a vital link between generations.
a high-speed rail link
a link road
a video link
The speech was broadcast via a satellite link.
To visit similar websites to this one, click on the links at the bottom of the page.
The video cameras are linked to a powerful computer.
The Channel Tunnel links Britain with the rest of Europe.
When computers are networked, they are linked together so that information can be transferred between them.
Exposure to ultraviolet light is closely linked to skin cancer.
The two factors are directly linked.
The personal and social development of the child are inextricably linked (= they depend on each other).
Detectives have linked the break-in to a similar crime in the area last year.
Newspapers have linked his name with the singer.
The two girls linked arms as they strolled down the street.
The two spacecraft will link up in orbit.
The bands have linked up for a charity concert.
a live satellite link-up with the conference
This chapter explores the linkage between economic development and the environment.
He created linkbait in order to get his site noticed.
In 'She became angry', the verb 'became' is a linking verb.
The assistant pursed her lips.
your upper/lower/top/bottom lip
She kissed him on the lips.
Not a drop of alcohol passed my lips (= I didn't drink any).
thin-lipped
thick-lipped
He ran his finger around the lip of the cup.
Lava bubbled a few feet below the lip of the crater.
Don't let him give you any lip!
Read my lips: no new taxes (= I promise there will be no new taxes).
All the parties pay lip service to environmental issues.
She lip-synced to a Beatles song.
He lip-synced 'Return to Sender'.
She was wearing bright red lipstick.
the lipstick lesbian stereotype
She poured the dark brown liquid down the sink.
the transition from liquid to vapour
liquid soap
liquid nitrogen
The detergent comes in powder or liquid form.
a bar selling snacks and liquid refreshment (= drinks)
liquid assets
liquid blue eyes
the liquid song of a blackbird
to liquidate assets
The government tried to liquidate the rebel movement and failed.
The company has gone into liquidation.
Falling prices may lead to further liquidation of stocks.
hard liquor
She drinks wine and beer but no liquor.
intoxicating liquor
She spoke with a slight lisp.
a shopping/wine/price list
to make a list of things to do
(formal) to draw up a list
Is your name on the list?
Having to wait hours came high on the list of complaints.
We were asked to list our ten favourite songs.
Towns in the guide are listed alphabetically.
The koala is listed among Australia's endangered animals.
soldiers listed as missing
This CD player lists at $200.
Listen! What's that noise? Can you hear it?
Sorry, I wasn't really listening.
to listen to music
I listened carefully to her story.
I'm fond of listening to classical music.
None of this would have happened if you'd listened to me.
Why won't you listen to reason?
Listen, there's something I have to tell you.
Can you listen out for the doorbell?
You shouldn't listen in on other people's conversations.
Have a listen to this.
a good listener (= sb who you can rely on to listen with attention or sympathy)
a comprehensive listing of all airlines
a listings magazine
(business 商业) The company is seeking a stock exchange listing (= for trading shares).
The illness left her feeling listless and depressed.
a litany of complaints
French literature
great works of literature
I've read all the available literature on keeping rabbits.
sales literature
lite ice cream
I would describe this movie as 'Hitchcock lite'.
a campaign to promote adult literacy
basic literacy skills
I am not referring to 'small' people in the literal sense of the word.
The literal meaning of 'petrify' is 'turn to stone'.
a literal translation
Her interpretation of the music was too literal.
The word 'planet' literally means 'wandering body'.
When I told you to 'get lost' I didn't expect to be taken literally.
There are literally hundreds of prizes to win.
I literally jumped out of my skin.
literary criticism/theory
It was Chaucer who really turned English into a literary language.
a literary man
The company has been in litigation with its previous auditors for a full year.
litmus paper
The outcome will be seen as a litmus test of government concern for conservation issues.
3 litres of water
a litre bottle of wine
a car with a 3.5 litre engine
a little house
a little group of tourists
a little old lady
the classic little black dress
'Which do you want?' 'I'll take the little one.'
She gave a little laugh.
(BrE) We should manage, with a little bit of luck.
Here's a little something (= a small present) for your birthday.
The poor little thing! It's lost its mother.
What a nasty little man!
She's a good little worker.
He'd become quite the little gentleman.
a little boy/girl
my little brother/sister (= younger brother/sister)
I lived in America when I was little.
A little while later the phone rang.
Shall we walk a little way?
I can't remember every little detail.
You soon get used to the little difficulties.
There was little doubt in my mind.
Students have little or no choice in the matter.
I understood little of what he said.
She said little or nothing (= hardly anything) about her experience.
Tell him as little as possible.
a little milk/sugar/tea
If you have any spare milk, could you give me a little?
I've only read a little of the book so far.
(formal) It caused not a little/no little (= a lot of) confusion.
After a little (= a short time) he got up and left.
Little by little the snow disappeared.
His English is improving little by little.
He is little known as an artist.
I slept very little last night.
Little did I know that this spelled the end of my career.
She seemed a little afraid of going inside.
These shoes are a little (bit) too big for me.
(informal) Everything has become just that little bit harder.
(formal) She felt tired and more than a little worried.
There will be fines for people who drop litter.
The floor was covered with a litter of newspapers, clothes and empty cups.
cat litter
(BrE) a litter tray
(NAmE) a litter box
a litter of puppies
the runt (= the smallest and weakest baby) of the litter
Piles of books and newspapers littered the floor.
Broken glass littered the streets.
The floor was littered with papers.
(NAmE) He was arrested for littering.
Your essay is littered with spelling mistakes.
Last year's figures were little short of disastrous.
The transformation has been nothing short of a miracle.
littoral states
to live in a house
Where do you live?
She needs to find somewhere to live.
We used to live in London.
Both her children still live at home.
(informal) Where do these plates live (= where are they usually kept)?
The doctors said he only had six months to live.
Spiders can live for several days without food.
She lived to see her first grandchild.
When did Handel live?
He's the greatest player who ever lived.
He lived in poverty most of his life.
She lived a very peaceful life.
She lived and died a single woman.
This moment will live in our memory for many years to come.
Her words have lived with me all my life.
I don't want to be stuck in an office all my life—I want to live!
You've never been to New York? You haven't lived!
young people sleeping rough on the streets
That's a philosophy I could live by.
a community that lives by fishing
She felt so stupid. She'd never be able to live it down.
She lives for her work.
After his wife died, he had nothing to live for.
They have an au pair living in.
She's still living off her parents.
to live off welfare
He seems to live off junk food.
She died ten years ago but her memory lives on.
Small birds live mainly on insects.
She lives on burgers.
You can't live on forty pounds a week.
Some college students will have to live out.
to live out your fantasies
He lived out his days alone.
He has lived through two world wars.
He failed to live up to his parents' expectations.
The team called 'The No-Hopers' certainly lived up to its name.
I just had to learn to live with the pain.
live animals
the number of live births (= babies born alive)
We saw a real live rattlesnake!
live coverage of the World Cup
The club has live music most nights.
a live recording made at Wembley Arena
the band's new live album
It was the first interview I'd done in front of a live audience (= with people watching).
That terminal is live.
live ammunition
Pollution is still very much a live issue.
Here are some live links to other aviation-related web pages.
The show is going out live.
a live-action movie
He live-blogged from the top of the mountain.
to live-blog an event/an election/a debate
a live-in nanny
safer and more liveable residential areas
The place looks liveable in.
The problem is paying the mortgage—everything else is liveable with.
a liveable salary
(approving) The room had a comfortable, lived-in feel about it.
an intelligent and lively young woman
a lively and enquiring mind
He showed a lively interest in politics.
a lively bar
a lively debate
a lively shade of pink
They do a lively trade in souvenirs and gifts.
Communities on the island depended on whaling for their livelihood.
a means/source of livelihood
The game didn't liven up till the second half.
Let's put some music on to liven things up.
liver and onions
chicken livers
liveried aircraft
liveried servants
a livid bruise
all living things
living organisms
the finest living pianist
living languages (= those still spoken)
a living faith
the coldest winter in living memory
She earns her living as a freelance journalist.
to make a good/decent/meagre living
What do you do for a living?
to scrape/scratch a living from part-time tutoring
everyday living
communal living
plain living
Their standard of living is very low.
The cost of living has risen sharply.
poor living conditions/standards
the living and the dead
The trucks waited at the warehouse to pick up their loads.
The women came down the hill with their loads of firewood.
These backpacks are designed to carry a heavy load.
A lorry shed its load (= accidentally dropped its load) on the motorway.
a busload of tourists
They ordered three truckloads of sand.
He put half a load of washing in the machine.
The plane took off with a full load.
a load-bearing wall
Modern backpacks spread the load over a wider area.
She's got loads of friends.
There's loads to do today.
He wrote loads and loads of letters to people.
Uncle Jim brought a whole load of presents for the kids.
You're talking a load of rubbish.
Teaching loads have increased in all types of school.
She thought she would not be able to bear the load of bringing up her family alone.
Knowing that they had arrived safely took a load off my mind.
We loaded the car in ten minutes.
Can you help me load the dishwasher?
Men were loading up a truck with timber.
Sacks were being loaded onto the truck.
We finished loading and set off.
The ship was still loading.
They loaded her with gifts.
She loaded film into the camera.
She loaded the camera with film.
Is the gun loaded?
Have you loaded the software?
Wait for the game to load.
She was loaded down with bags of groceries.
a fully loaded truck
a truck loaded with supplies
She came into the room carrying a loaded tray.
cakes loaded with calories
Let her pay—she's loaded.
a system that is loaded in favour of the young (= gives them an advantage)
It was a loaded question and I preferred not to comment.
a loaded shotgun
The 2% loading for using the card abroad has been removed.
a loaf of bread
Two white loaves, please.
a sliced loaf
'Why don't you want to see him again?' 'Oh, use your head!'
A group of kids were loafing around outside.
to take out/repay a loan (= to borrow money/pay it back)
bank loans with low interest rates
It took three years to repay my student loan (= money lent to a student).
a car loan (= a loan to buy a car)
I even gave her the loan of my car.
an exhibition of paintings on loan (= borrowed) from private collections
The bank is happy to loan money to small businesses.
A friend loaned me $1 000.
This exhibit was kindly loaned by the artist's family.
He loaned the museum his entire collection.
'Latte' is a loanword from Italian.
He was loath to admit his mistake.
I loathe modern art.
They loathe each other.
She looked at her attacker with fear and loathing.
Many soldiers returned with a deep loathing of war.
Stones were lobbed over the wall.
He lobbed the ball over the defender's head.
to play a lob
a hotel lobby
The gun lobby is/are against any change in the law.
a recent lobby of Parliament by pensioners
Farmers will lobby Congress for higher subsidies.
Women's groups are lobbying to get more public money for children.
political lobbyists
to pay lobola
a local farmer
A local man was accused of the murder.
Our children go to the local school.
a local newspaper (= one that gives local news)
local radio (= a radio station that broadcasts to one area only)
decisions made at local rather than national level
It was difficult to understand the local dialect.
Her tooth was extracted under local anaesthetic.
to work locally
Do you live locally (= in this area)?
locally grown fruit
The locals are very friendly.
I called in at my local on the way home.
state and local governments
We reach Delhi at 2 o'clock local time.
animals' ability to localize sounds
We will localize the app into French, Japanese, and two written forms of Chinese.
people living in the locality of the power station
There is no airport in the locality.
We talk of the brain as the locality of thought.
The birds are found in over 70 different localities.
a localized infection (= in one part of the body)
localized fighting
steam/diesel/electric locomotives
The mechanic located the fault immediately.
Rescue planes are trying to locate the missing sailors.
They located their headquarters in Swindon.
There are tax breaks for businesses that locate in rural areas.
a small town located 30 miles south of Chicago
The offices are conveniently located just a few minutes from the main station.
a honeymoon in a secret location
What is the exact location of the ship?
The village was used as the location for a popular TV series.
The movie was shot entirely on location in Italy.
The company lists 5 000 stores on the store locator part of its website.
Did you lock the door?
This suitcase doesn't lock.
She locked her passport and money in the safe.
The brakes locked and the car skidded.
He locked his helmet into position with a click.
The two sides are locked into a bitter dispute.
She felt locked in a loveless marriage.
They were locked in a passionate embrace.
These files are locked to protect confidentiality.
At 9 p.m. the prisoners are locked in for the night.
I'd locked myself out of the house and had to break a window to get in.
Don't forget to lock up at night.
He locked up the shop and went home.
Their capital is all locked up in property.
She turned the key in the lock.
a bicycle lock
a steering lock
I had the steering wheel on full lock (= I had turned it as far as it would turn).
John brushed a lock of hair from his eyes.
She shook her long, flowing locks.
One company had a virtual lock on all orange juice sales in the state.
a lock-up garage
a three-day lockdown of American airspace
Prisoners have been placed on lockdown to prevent further violence at the jail.
The coffin was carried by six soldiers walking in lockstep.
(figurative) Politicians and the media are marching in lockstep on this issue (= they agree).
a lockstep approach to teaching
Cases of breathing difficulties increase in lockstep with air pollution.
a swarm of locusts
a hunting lodge
All visitors should report to the porter's lodge.
a masonic lodge
a holiday lodge
They lodged a compensation claim against the factory.
Portugal has lodged a complaint with the International Court of Justice.
He lodged with Mrs Brown when he arrived in the city.
The refugees are being lodged at an old army base.
One of the bullets lodged in his chest.
She lodged the number firmly in her mind.
Your will should be lodged with your lawyer.
full board and lodging (= a room to stay in and all meals provided)
It was cheaper to live in lodgings than in a hotel.
a mother's love for her children
love of your country
He seems incapable of love.
a love song/story
We're in love!
She was in love with him.
They fell in love with each other.
It was love at first sight (= they were attracted to each other the first time they met).
They're madly in love.
Their love grew with the years.
a love of learning
He's in love with his work.
I fell in love with the house.
Take care, my love.
He was the love of my life (= the person I loved most).
I like most sports but tennis is my first love.
Can I help you, love?
40–love!
She won the first set six–love/six games to love.
Lots of love, Jenny
It was the first time they had made love.
We couldn't find a taxi for love nor money.
There's no love lost between her and her in-laws.
If you love each other, why not get married?
Her much-loved brother lay dying of AIDS.
He had become a well-loved member of staff.
Relatives need time to grieve over loved ones they have lost.
to love your country
I really love summer evenings.
I just love it when you bring me presents!
I love it in Spain (= I like the life there).
It was one of his best-loved songs.
(ironic) You're going to love this. They've changed their minds again.
(especially in BrE) My dad loves going to football games.
(especially NAmE) I love to go out dancing.
He loved her to sing to him.
Come on Rory, the kids would love to hear you sing.
I haven't been to Brazil, but I'd love to go.
I'd love her to come and live with us.
'Cigarette?' 'I'd love one, but I've just given up.'
Well, time to love you and leave you.
a loft conversion (= one that has been made into a room or rooms for living in)
the organ loft
They lived in a SoHo loft.
The children slept in a loft in the upstairs bedroom.
lofty ceilings/rooms/towers
lofty ambitions/ideals/principles
her lofty disdain for other people
logs for the fire
The captain keeps a log.
The police log all phone calls.
The pilot has logged 1 000 hours in the air.
You need a password to log on.
The system is unable to log you on.
I fail to see the logic behind his argument.
The two parts of the plan were governed by the same logic.
Linking the proposals in a single package did have a certain logic.
a strategy based on sound commercial logic
There is no logic to/in any of their claims.
the rules of logic
a logical thing to do in the circumstances
It was a logical conclusion from the child's point of view.
a logical argument
Computer programming needs someone with a logical mind.
to argue logically
If you've forgotten your login ID, click this link.
Enter your login and password and press 'go'.
the logistics of moving the company to a new building
a revolution in military logistics
logistic support
Organizing famine relief presents huge logistical problems.
loin of pork
Teenagers were loitering in the street outside.
He lolled back in his chair by the fire.
My head lolled against his shoulder.
The dog came lolloping towards them.
The dog kept running around chasing its tail. Lolz.
This is no time for lolz—we're dealing with a serious matter!
He went to the supermarket in his pyjamas, just for lolz.
a lone sailor crossing the Atlantic
a lone mother/parent/father
She lives alone and often feels lonely.
all those lonely nights at home watching TV
a lonely beach
a period of loneliness in his life
He placed a lonely hearts ad in a magazine.
I felt so lonesome after he left.
a lonesome road
She had long dark hair.
He walked down the long corridor.
It was the world's longest bridge.
a long journey/walk/drive/flight
We're a long way from anywhere here.
It's a long way away.
How long is the River Nile?
The table is six feet long.
The report is only three pages long.
He's been ill (for) a long time.
There was a long silence before she spoke.
I like it now the days are getting longer (= it stays light for more time each day).
a long book/film/list (= taking a lot of time to read/watch/deal with)
Nurses have to work long hours (= for more hours in the day than is usual).
(NAmE) He stared at them for the longest time (= for a very long time) before answering.
We've been friends a long time.
I stayed out in the sun for too long.
You've been waiting long enough.
Have you been waiting long?
I haven't been here for a long time(= It is a long time since the last time I was here).
I haven't been here long(= I arrived here only a short time ago).
How long is the course?
I think it's only three weeks long.
How long a stay did you have in mind?
I'm tired. It's been a long day.
We were married for ten long years.
She usually wears long skirts.
a long-sleeved shirt
The government is long on ideas but short on performance.
Have you been here long?
Stay as long as you like.
The party went on long into the night.
This may take longer than we thought.
I won't be long (= I'll return, be ready, etc. soon).
How long have you been waiting?
These reforms are long overdue.
He retired long before the war.
It wasn't long before she had persuaded him (= it only took a short time).
We'll be home before long (= soon).
The house was pulled down long ago.
They had long since (= a long time before the present time) moved away.
We had to wait all day long.
The baby was crying all night long.
They stayed up the whole night long.
I can't wait any longer.
He no longer lives here.
Lucy had always longed for a brother.
He longed for Pat to phone.
I'm longing to see you again.
She knows that becoming world champion is going to be a long haul.
a pair of long johns
to broadcast on long wave
her long-awaited new novel
a long-distance commuter
long-distance flights
a long-distance phone call
It's a relaxing car to drive long distance.
to call long distance
long-drawn-out negotiations
long-haul flights/routes
long-lasting effects
a long-lasting agreement
long-life batteries
long-life milk
a long-lost friend
long-range missiles
a long-range weather forecast
long-range plans
a long-running dispute
a long-running TV series
long-serving employees
a long-standing relationship
long-stay patients
long-stay hospitals/institutions/wards (= for long-stay patients)
long-stay parking
his long-suffering wife
a long-term strategy
the long-term effects of fertilizers
a long-term investment
long-term unemployment
his long-time colleague
the birth of a longed-for baby
We wish you both health and longevity.
He prides himself on the longevity of the company.
a longing for home
She was filled with longing to hear his voice again.
romantic longings
His voice was husky with longing (= sexual desire).
He gave a longing look at the ice cream.
We looked longingly towards the hills.
longish hair
There was a longish pause.
the longitude of the island
The plant's stem is marked with thin green longitudinal stripes.
a longitudinal study of ageing
the town's longitudinal position
She's gone to the loo.
Can I use your loo, please?
If you look carefully you can just see our house from here.
She looked at me and smiled.
'Has the mail come yet?' 'I'll look and see.'
Look! I'm sure that's Brad Pitt!
Don't look now, but there's someone staring at you!
to watch television
Watch what I do, then you try.
In the evening we went to see a movie.
People came from all over the world to view her work.
The patients were observed over a period of several months.
I can't find my book—I've looked everywhere.
Where have you been? We've been looking for you.
Are you still looking for a job?
Look at the time! We're going to be late.
Can't you look where you're going?
to look pale/happy/tired
That book looks interesting.
That looks like an interesting book.
That looks an interesting book.
You made me look a complete fool!
That photograph doesn't look like her at all.
It looks like rain (= it looks as if it's going to rain).
You look as though you slept badly.
You look like you slept badly.
It doesn't look as if we'll be moving after all.
(informal) It doesn't look like we'll be moving after all.
The house looks east.
The hotel looks out over the harbour.
It looks bad not going to your own brother's wedding.
He's had another heart attack; things are looking bad for him, I'm afraid.
This year's sales figures are looking good.
Now look here, it wasn't my fault.
Look how lazy we've become.
Be careful climbing that ladder. Look what happened last time.
Her first novel was published in 2007 and since then she hasn't looked back.
To look at him you'd never think he was nearly fifty.
Who's going to look after the children while you're away?
I'm looking after his affairs while he's in hospital.
Don't worry about me—I can look after myself (= I don't need any help).
He's good at looking after his own interests.
People came out of their houses and looked around.
Let's look round the town this afternoon.
We're looking around for a house in this area.
Your ankle's swollen—I think the doctor ought to look at it.
I haven't had time to look at (= read) the papers yet.
The implications of the new law will need to be looked at.
Looked at from that point of view, his decision is easier to understand.
to look back on your childhood
She looks down on people who haven't been to college.
We shall be looking for an improvement in your work this term.
I'm looking forward to the weekend.
We're really looking forward to seeing you again.
She looks in on her elderly neighbour every evening.
Why don't you look in on me next time you're in town?
A working party has been set up to look into the problem.
Passers-by simply looked on as he was attacked.
She's looked on as the leading authority on the subject.
They looked on his behaviour with contempt.
Look out! There's a car coming.
You should look out for pickpockets.
Do look out for spelling mistakes in your work.
I'll look out for you at the conference.
You should look out for yourself from now on.
I'll look out those old photographs you wanted to see.
We looked over the house again before we decided we would rent it.
She looked round when she heard the noise.
She just looked straight through me.
She looked through her notes before the exam.
We are looking to you for help.
We need to look to ways of improving our marketing.
At last things were beginning to look up.
She looked up from her book as I entered the room.
Do look me up the next time you're in London.
Can you look up the opening times on the website?
I looked it up in the dictionary.
Take a look at these figures!
Make sure you get a good look at their faces.
One look at his face and Jenny stopped laughing.
A look passed between them (= they looked at each other).
It's an interesting place. Do you want to take a look around?
We'll be taking a close look at these proposals (= examining them carefully).
I've had a good look for it, but I can't find it.
a look of surprise
He didn't like the look in her eyes.
She had a worried look on her face.
It's going to rain today by the look of it (= judging by appearances).
Looks can be deceptive.
I don't like the look of that guy (= I don't trust him, judging by his appearance).
She has her father's good looks.
He lost his looks (= became less attractive) in later life.
The punk look is back in fashion.
They've given the place a completely new look.
Look, I think we should go now.
Look, that's not fair.
Drunken youths hang around outside looking for trouble.
You'd better look sharp or you'll be late.
'George is so careless with money.' 'Look who's talking!'
Come and have a look-see.
Their latest single sounds suspiciously like the last one.
an Elvis lookalike
She's a real looker!
a lookout point/tower
One of the men stood at the door to act as a lookout.
A dark shape loomed up ahead of us.
There was a crisis looming.
The road went in a huge loop around the lake.
He tied a loop of rope around his arm.
Make a loop in the string.
a belt loop (= on trousers/pants, etc. for holding a belt in place)
The film is on a loop.
(figurative) His mind kept turning in an endless loop.
He looped the strap over his shoulder.
The river loops around the valley.
The ball looped high up in the air.
a legal loophole
to close existing loopholes
He'll go loopy when he hears!
The play has too many loose ends.
There are still a few loose ends to tie up (= a few things to finish).
a loose-leaf binder
She fastened the belt loosely around her waist.
to use a term loosely
The play is loosely based on his childhood in Russia.
First loosen the nuts, then take off the wheel.
The rope holding the boat loosened.
He loosened his grip and let her go.
(figurative) The military regime has not loosened its hold on power.
The party has loosened its links with big business.
A bottle of wine had loosened Harry's tongue.
Come on, Jo. Loosen up.
More than 20 shops were looted.
A gang went through the train and looted money from passengers.
Clothes and jewellery were looted from her house.
(figurative) The Government is looting the public.
He was stopped by the police while trying to loot a bank.
They lopped 20p off the price.
a lop-eared rabbit
The dog loped along beside her.
He set off with a loping stride.
a lopsided grin/mouth
(figurative) The article presents a somewhat lopsided view of events.
Lord Beaverbrook
the Lord Chancellor
the Lord Mayor
a feudal lord
the lord of the manor
Love the Lord with all your heart.
The Lords has/have not yet reached a decision.
a lordly mansion
His Lordship is away on business.
Can his lordship manage to switch off the TV?
weather lore
Celtic lore
a lorry driver
Emergency food supplies were brought in by lorry.
a lorry load of frozen fish
I've lost my keys.
The tickets seem to have got lost.
She lost her husband in the crowd.
She lost a leg in a car crash.
to lose your hair/teeth (= as a result of getting old)
He's lost his job.
Some families lost everything (= all they owned) in the flood.
They lost both their sons (= they were killed) in the war.
The ship was lost at sea (= it sank).
Many people lost their lives (= were killed).
The company has lost a lot of business to its competitors.
You will lose your deposit if you cancel the order.
Sit down or you'll lose your seat.
He lost his nerve at the last minute.
She seemed to have lost interest in food.
At that moment he lost his balance and fell.
I've lost ten pounds since I started this diet.
The train was losing speed.
to lose a game/a race/an election/a battle/a war
We lost to a stronger team.
He lost by less than 100 votes.
The business is losing money.
Poetry always loses something in translation.
You have nothing to lose by telling the truth.
We lost on that deal.
His carelessness lost him the job.
His words were lost (= could not be heard) in the applause.
I'm afraid you've lost me there.
We managed to lose our pursuers in the darkness.
We lost twenty minutes changing a tyre.
Hurry— there's no time to lose!
He lost no time in setting out for London.
This clock loses two minutes a day.
Then she just lost it and started screaming.
While the stores make big profits, it's the customer who loses out.
Small businesses are losing out to the large chains.
Middle children tend to get lost in the shuffle.
They finally lost sight of land.
We must not lose sight of our original aim.
I've lost touch with all my old friends.
a violent/short/quick, etc. temper
He must learn to control his temper.
She broke the plates in a fit of temper.
After an hour of waiting, tempers began to fray (= people began to get angry).
to fly into a temper
She says awful things when she's in a temper.
Come back when you're in a better temper.
to be in a bad/foul, etc. temper
good-/bad-tempered
a sweet-tempered child
She lost her temper with a customer and shouted at him.
I struggle to keep my temper with the kids when they misbehave.
Justice must be tempered with mercy.
winners and losers
He's a good/bad loser (= he accepts defeat well/badly).
She's one of life's losers.
He's a born loser.
The real losers in all of this are the students.
I want to report the loss of a package.
loss of blood
weight loss
The closure of the factory will lead to a number of job losses.
When she died I was filled with a sense of loss.
loss of earnings (= the money you do not earn because you are prevented from working)
The company has announced net losses of $1.5 million.
We made a loss on (= lost money on) the deal.
We are now operating at a loss.
The loss of his wife was a great blow to him.
Enemy troops suffered heavy losses.
The drought has led to widespread loss of life.
Her departure is a big loss to the school.
She will be a great loss to the school.
If he isn't prepared to accept this money, then that's his loss.
Brazil's 2–1 loss to Argentina
We always get lost in London.
We're completely lost.
I'm still looking for that lost file.
Your cheque must have got lost in the post.
The strike cost them thousands of pounds in lost business.
She's trying to recapture her lost youth.
He regretted the lost (= wasted) opportunity to apologize to her.
We would be lost without your help.
I felt so lost after my mother died.
He's a lost soul (= a person who does not seem to know what to do, and seems unhappy).
They spoke so quickly I just got lost.
Hang on a minute—I'm lost.
a lost-property office
'How many do you need?' 'A lot.'
Have some more cake. There's lots left.
She still has an awful lot (= a very large amount) to learn.
He has invited nearly a hundred people but a lot aren't able to come.
Do you go to many concerts?
How many people came to the meeting?
I don't go to many concerts.
You made too many mistakes.
I go to a lot of concerts.
'How many CDs have you got?' 'Lots!'
I stayed in England for many/quite a few/ten weeks.
Lots of people like Italian food.
Plenty of stores stay open late.
What a lot of presents!
A lot of people are coming to the meeting.
black coffee with lots of sugar
I saw a lot of her (= I saw her often) last summer.
I'm feeling a lot better today.
I eat lots less than I used to.
I care a lot about you.
Thanks a lot for your help.
I play tennis quite a lot (= often) in the summer.
Do you have much free time?
How much experience have you had?
I don't have much free time.
'How much (money) does she earn?
She earns a lot of money.
I miss my family very much.
I miss my family a lot.
Thanks a lot.
I didn't enjoy the film (very) much.
He's bought a new PC, colour printer, scanner—the lot.
Get out of my house, the lot of you!
That's the lot! (= that includes everything)
That's your lot! (= that's all you're getting)
The first lot of visitors has/have arrived.
I have several lots of essays to mark this weekend.
(informal) What do you lot want?
Lot 46: six chairs
a vacant lot (= one available to be built on or used for sth)
(especially NAmE) We're going to build a house on this lot.
She was feeling dissatisfied with her lot.
He has a reputation as the office Lothario.
(a) body/hand lotion
suntan lotion
We're gonna have a lotta fun.
the national/state lottery
a lottery ticket
Some people think that marriage is a lottery.
a lotus flower
loud laughter
a deafeningly loud bang
She spoke in a very loud voice.
That music's too loud—please turn it down.
She screamed as loudly as she could.
Do you have to play that music so loud?
You'll have to speak louder—I can't hear you.
I laughed out loud.
Please read the letter out loud.
Their names were called over the loudspeaker.
Lough Corrib
the departure lounge
the television lounge
Several students were lounging around, reading newspapers.
head lice
What lousy weather!
She felt lousy (= ill).
All she bought me was this lousy T-shirt.
This place is lousy with tourists in August.
loutish behaviour
a lovable child
a lovable rogue
the English love affair with gardening
a loveless marriage
lovely countryside/eyes/flowers
He has a lovely voice.
'Can I get you anything?' 'A cup of tea would be lovely.'
What a lovely surprise!
How lovely to see you!
Isn't it a lovely day?
We've had a lovely time.
It's a lovely old farm.
(ironic) You've got yourself into a lovely mess, haven't you?
Her mother was a lovely woman.
It's lovely and warm in here.
He denied that he was her lover.
We were lovers for several years.
The park was full of young lovers holding hands.
a lover of music
an art-lover
a nature-lover
Ruth, lovey, are you there?
a warm and loving family
She chose the present with loving care.
fun-loving young people
He gazed lovingly at his children.
The house has been lovingly restored.
a low wall/building/table
a low range of hills
low clouds
flying at low altitude
The sun was low in the sky.
low back pain
the lower slopes of the mountain
temperatures in the low 20s (= no higher than 21–23°)
a dress with a low neckline
low prices
low-income families
a low-cost airline
the lowest temperature ever recorded
a low level of unemployment
Yogurt is usually very low in fat.
low-fat yogurt
low-tar cigarettes
The reservoir was low after the long drought.
Our supplies are running low (= we only have a little left).
They were low on fuel.
The cello is lower than the violin.
They were speaking in low voices.
students with low marks/grades in their exams
a low standard of living
low forms of life (= creatures with a very simple structure)
jobs with low status
Training was given a very low priority.
the lower classes of society
She has a very low opinion of her own abilities.
I'm feeling really low.
They were in low spirits.
He mixes with some pretty low types.
The lights were low and romance was in the air.
to crouch/bend low
a plane flying low over the town
low-flying aircraft
The sun sank lower towards the horizon.
a window set low in the wall
The candles were burning low.
low-priced goods
a low-powered PC
a very low-scoring game
He's singing an octave lower than the rest of us.
Can you turn the music lower—you'll wake the baby.
Stealing from your friends? How could you sink so low?
I can't believe that anyone would sink to such depths.
She was unwilling to believe anyone would stoop so low as to steal a ring from a dead woman's finger.
The yen has fallen to an all-time low against the dollar.
The temperature reached a record low in London last night.
The government's popularity has hit a new low.
The break-up of her marriage marked an all-time low in her life.
Another low is moving in from the Atlantic.
a low-life bar
Water supplies to the house are at low pressure.
The island can only be reached at low tide.
low-cost housing/transport/food
a low-cost airline
They can now successfully compete against low-cost foreign producers.
What a dirty, low-down trick!
Jane gave me the low-down on the other guests at the party.
a low-grade infection
low-impact aerobics
low-impact tourism
Their wedding was a very low-key affair.
low-level bombing attacks
a low-level job
low-level negotiations
low-level radioactive waste
a low-maintenance garden
low-paid workers
It is one of the lowest-paid jobs.
a low-pitched voice
a low-profile campaign
a low-ranking officer/official
her low-rent boyfriend
a low-resolution scan
low-rise housing
a low-risk investment
low-risk patients (= who are very unlikely to get a particular illness)
He lowballed the cost of the project in order to obtain federal funding.
the lower deck of a ship
His lower lip trembled.
the mountain's lower slopes
the lower reaches of the Nile
He had to lower his head to get through the door.
She lowered her newspaper and looked around.
They lowered him down the cliff on a rope.
He lowered his voice to a whisper.
This drug is used to lower blood pressure.
Her voice lowered as she spoke.
I wouldn't lower myself by working for him.
His angry refusal to agree raised the temperature of the meeting.
The text is all in lower case.
lower-case letters
The new bosses were condemned as 'too lower class'.
a lower-class accent
The school syllabus seems aimed at the lowest common denominator.
the lowlands of Scotland
Much of the region is lowland.
a loyal friend/supporter
She has always remained loyal to her political principles.
They swore their loyalty to the king.
Can I count on your loyalty?
a case of divided loyalties (= with strong feelings of support for two different causes, people, etc.)
throat/cough lozenges
Lt (Helen) Brown
Pearce and Co. Ltd
a lucid style/explanation
In a rare lucid moment, she looked at me and smiled.
With (any) luck, we'll be home before dark.
(BrE) With a bit of luck, we'll finish on time.
So far I have had no luck with finding a job.
I could hardly believe my luck when he said yes.
It was a stroke of luck that we found you.
By sheer luck nobody was hurt in the explosion.
We wish her luck in her new career.
You're in luck (= lucky) —there's one ticket left.
You're out of luck. She's not here.
What a piece of luck!
to have good/bad luck
It's pot luck whether you get good advice or not.
You're welcome to stay to supper, but you'll have to take pot luck (= eat whatever is available).
'I failed by one point.' 'That's tough luck.'
'If you take the car, I won't be able to go out.' 'Tough luck!'
My grandparents emigrated to Canada to try their luck there.
I shall have to miss the party, worse luck!
Good luck!
The best of luck for the exam!(BrE)
I hope it goes well! We'll be thinking about you.
All the best! I'll keep my fingers crossed for you.
Thanks.
I'll do my best.
I guess I really lucked out when I met her.
His friend was killed and he knows he is lucky to be alive.
She was lucky enough to be chosen for the team.
You were lucky (that) you spotted the danger in time.
You can think yourself lucky you didn't get mugged.
She counted herself lucky that she still had a job.
Mark is one of the lucky ones —he at least has somewhere to sleep.
the lucky winners
It was lucky for us that we were able to go.
That was the luckiest escape of my life.
a lucky guess
a lucky charm
Luckily for us, the train was late.
Luckily, I am a good swimmer.
'I'm off to Paris.' 'Lucky you!'
'I was hoping to get a ticket for Saturday.' 'You'll be lucky.'
the luckless victim of the attack
a lucrative business/contract/market
the lure of filthy lucre
a ludicrous suggestion
It was ludicrous to think that the plan could succeed.
ludicrously expensive
I had to lug my bags up to the fourth floor.
There's room for one more piece of luggage.
You stay there with the luggage while I find a cab.
a lugubrious expression
Our food was only lukewarm.
a lukewarm response
She was lukewarm about the plan.
a lull in the conversation/fighting
Just before an attack everything would go quiet but we knew it was just the lull before the storm (= before a time of noise or trouble).
The vibration of the engine lulled the children to sleep.
His father's arrival lulled the boy's anxiety.
His friendly manner lulled her into a false sense of security (= made her feel safe with him when she should not have).
She didn't realize that there was ice cream all over the back of her dress! Lulz.
They posted embarrassing photos of him on the Internet, just for the lulz.
a lumber room (= for storing lumber in)
A family of elephants lumbered by.
When our parents went out, my sister got lumbered with me for the evening.
a lumbering dinosaur
luminous paint
luminous hands on a clock
staring with huge luminous eyes
(figurative) the luminous quality of the music
They painted the door a luminous green.
a lump of coal/cheese/wood
This sauce has lumps in it.
One lump or two?
He was unhurt apart from a lump on his head.
Check your breasts for lumps every month.
You can't lump all Asian languages together.
I'm sorry you're not happy about it but you'll just have to lump it.
That's the situation— like it or lump it!
lumpy sauce
a lumpy mattress
It's sheer lunacy driving in such weather.
a lunar eclipse/landscape
This lunatic in a white van pulled out right in front of me!
lunatic ideas
a lunatic smile
She's gone to lunch.
I'm ready for some lunch.
What shall we have for lunch?
We serve hot and cold lunches.
a one-hour lunch break
Let's do lunch (= have lunch together).
He lunched with a client at the Ritz.
I usually go to the gym during my lunch hour.
a charity luncheon
Luncheon will be served at one, Madam.
The package still hadn't arrived by lunchtime.
a lunchtime concert
The sandwich bar is generally packed at lunchtimes.
lung cancer
a lung-busting climb/hill
She won a bronze medal for her lung-busting efforts in the 1 500 metres final.
He made a lunge for the phone.
Suddenly the horse lurched to one side and the child fell off.
The man lurched drunkenly out of the pub.
(figurative) Their relationship seems to lurch from one crisis to the next.
The train gave a violent lurch.
His heart gave a lurch when he saw her.
The child was lured into a car but managed to escape.
Young people are lured to the city by the prospect of a job and money.
Few can resist the lure of adventure.
I've caught some kind of lurgy.
It's the dreaded lurgy!
lurid headlines
The paper gave all the lurid details of the murder.
Why are you lurking around outside my house?
A crocodile was lurking just below the surface.
At night, danger lurks in these streets.
It's Valentine's Day and lurve is in the air.
luscious fruit
luscious silks and velvets
a luscious young girl
lush vegetation
the lush green countryside
a lush apartment
This shampoo smells lush.
Their affair was driven by pure lust.
to satisfy his lust for power
She has a real lust for life (= she really enjoys life).
a lusty young man
lusty singing
singing lustily
Her hair had lost its lustre.
The presence of the prince added lustre to the occasion.
thick lustrous hair
Never mind, luv.
See you soon, lots of luv, Sue.
luxuriant vegetation
thick, luxuriant hair
the poet's luxuriant imagery
the luxuriance of the tropical forest
a tall, luxuriantly bearded man
She turned luxuriantly on her side, yawning.
She luxuriated in all the attention she received.
Now we'll be able to live in luxury for the rest of our lives.
to lead a life of luxury
a luxury hotel
luxury goods
small luxuries like chocolate and flowers
I love having a long, hot bath—it's one of life's little luxuries.
It was a luxury if you had a washing machine in those days.
We had the luxury of being able to choose from four good candidates for the job.
a luxurious hotel
luxurious surroundings
luxuriously comfortable
a luxuriously furnished apartment
She stretched luxuriously on the bed.
1 500m LW
the lymphatic system
music and lyrics by Rodgers and Hart
a lyrical melody
He began to wax lyrical (= talk in an enthusiastic way) about his new car.
Both musically and lyrically it is very effective.
800m medium wave
population: 10m
'Milk' begins with (an) M/'M'.
S, M and L (= small, medium and large)
heavy traffic on the M25
m-tickets and other m-commerce products
My client pleads guilty, M'lud.
I'm going now, ma.
'I want my ma,' sobbed the little girl.
to be/have/do an MA
(BrE) Julie Bell MA
'Can I help you, ma'am?'
Maybe he'll come, maybe he won't.
'Are you going to sell your house?' 'Maybe.'
It will cost two, maybe three hundred pounds.
We go there maybe once or twice a month.
I thought maybe we could go together.
Maybe you should tell her.
'You should stop work when you have the baby.' 'Maybe, but I can't afford to.'
'I think he should resign.' 'Maybe.'
a macabre tale/joke/ritual
a fighter plane with a top speed of Mach 3 (= 3 times the speed of sound)
Machines have replaced human labour in many industries.
to operate/run a machine
How does this machine work?
a washing/sewing machine
a machine for making plastic toys
I left a message on her answering machine.
The potatoes are planted by machine.
Just put those clothes in the machine (= the washing machine).
The new machines (= computers) will be shipped next month.
the president's propaganda machine
This material can be cut and machined easily.
a burst/hail of machine-gun fire
agricultural/industrial machinery
a piece of machinery
the machinery of government
There is no machinery for resolving disputes.
He's too macho to ever admit he was wrong.
macho pride/posturing
smoked mackerel
macroeconomics
a macrobiotic diet
macroeconomic policy
They realized that he had gone mad.
Inventors are not mad scientists.
I'll go mad if I have to wait much longer.
She seemed to have gone stark raving mad.
You must be mad to risk it.
It was a mad idea.
'I'm going to buy some new clothes.' 'Well, don't go mad (= spend more than is sensible).'
She's mad at me for being late.
(BrE) That noise is driving me mad.
(BrE) He'll go mad when he sees the damage.
to be mad on tennis
He's always been mad about kids.
football-mad boys
She's completely power-mad.
The crowd made a mad rush for the exit.
Only a mad dash got them to the meeting on time.
(BrE) The team won and the fans went mad.
(BrE) to be mad with anger/excitement/grief/love
I had to run like mad to catch the bus.
Can I help you, madam?
Dear Madam (= used like Dear Sir in a letter)
She's a proper little madam.
madcap schemes/escapades
maddening delays
Progress is maddeningly slow.
well-made
home-made
You'll need to get a suit made to measure.
a made-to-measure suit
a heavily made-up face/woman
a made-up story/word/name
Don't work in that department; it's a madhouse.
She was rushing around madly trying to put out the fire.
His heart thudded madly against his ribs.
madly excited/jealous
She's madly in love with him.
The killing was the act of a madman.
He drove like a madman.
Some madman (= stupid person) deleted all the files.
There may be a link between madness and creativity.
It would be sheer madness to trust a man like that.
In a moment of madness she had agreed to go out with him.
chicken madras
Maestro Giulini
The winning goal was scored by the maestro himself.
a member of the local mafia
Politics is still dominated by the middle-class mafia.
a weekly/monthly magazine
a magazine article/interview
an online magazine
Her designer clothes were from the pages of a glossy fashion magazine.
a regional news magazine on TV
a magazine programme/program
In the 1990s the area became a magnet for new investment.
fridge magnets of your favourite cartoon characters
magnetic materials
The block becomes magnetic when the current is switched on.
magnetic properties/forces
a magnetic disk (= one containing magnetic tape that stores information to be used by a computer)
a magnetic personality
a majestic castle/river/view
Do you believe in magic?
He suddenly appeared as if by magic.
A passage was cleared through the crowd like magic.
dance and music which capture the magic of India
Like all truly charismatic people, he can work his magic on both men and women.
Our year in Italy was pure/sheer magic.
Will Ronaldo be able to weave his magic against Italy on Wednesday?
a magic spell/charm/potion/trick
There is no magic formula for passing exams—only hard work.
It was a magic moment when the two sisters were reunited after 30 years.
She has a magic touch with the children and they do everything she asks.
Trust is the magic ingredient in our relationship.
'What was the trip like?' 'Magic!'
I wish I could wave a magic wand and make everything all right again.
magical powers
Her words had a magical effect on us.
a truly magical feeling
We spent a magical week in Paris.
He talked with the magisterial authority of the head of the family.
his magisterial work 'The Roman Wall in Scotland'
a magistrates' court
to come up before the magistrates
She graduated magna cum laude from UCLA.
a magnanimous gesture
He was magnanimous in defeat and praised his opponent's skill.
She accepted the criticism with magnanimity.
a media/property/shipping magnate
Cities have a powerful magnetizing effect on young people.
She exudes sexual magnetism.
The insects were examined under magnification.
a magnification of 10 times the actual size
high/low magnification
The telescope has a magnification of 50.
The Taj Mahal is a magnificent building.
She looked magnificent in her wedding dress.
You've all done a magnificent job.
the magnificence of the scenery
The public have responded magnificently to our appeal.
bacteria magnified to 1 000 times their actual size
an image magnified by a factor of 4
The sound was magnified by the high roof.
The dry summer has magnified the problem of water shortages.
We did not realize the magnitude of the problem.
a discovery of the first magnitude
The star varies in brightness by about three magnitudes.
a mahogany table
skin tanned to a deep mahogany
There is a maid to do the housework.
stories of knights and fair maidens
a maiden flight/voyage (= the first journey made by a plane/ship)
a maiden speech (= the first speech made by an MP in the parliaments of some countries)
Kate kept her maiden name when she got married (= did not change her surname to that of her husband).
a mail service/train/van
the Royal Mail
Your cheque is in the mail.
We do our business by mail.
There isn't much mail today.
I sat down to open the mail.
Is there a letter from them in the mail?
hate mail (= letters containing insults and threats)
I'll put an application form in the post/mail for you today.
Send your fee by post/mail to this address.
Was there any post/mail this morning?
I sat down to open my post/mail.
I'll post the letter when I go out.
(NAmE) I'll mail the letter when I go out.
Check regularly for new mail.
the Mail on Sunday
a coat of mail
Don't forget to mail that letter to your mother.
Don't forget to mail your mother that letter.
The company intends to mail 50 000 households in the area.
Please mail us at the following email address.
The virus mails itself forward to everyone in your address book.
Can you mail me that document you mentioned?
The brochures were mailed out last week.
The newspaper was mail-bombed by angry readers after the article was published.
All our products are available by mail order.
a mail-order company
a mail-order catalogue
The strike has delayed the mailing of tax reminders.
a mailing address
An order form is included in the mailing.
I am already on your mailing list.
Hundreds of people are killed or maimed in car accidents every week.
Be careful crossing the main road.
the main course (= of a meal)
We have our main meal at lunchtime.
Reception is in the main building.
Poor housing and unemployment are the main problems.
The main thing is to stay calm.
a leaking gas main
The house is not yet connected to the mains.
The electricity supply has been cut off at the mains.
Plug the transformer into the mains (= the place on a wall where electricity is brought into a room).
mains gas/water/electricity
The shaver will run off batteries or mains.
mains drainage
a main-line station
Of course I trust you—you're my main man!
Main Street won't be happy with this new program.
Social tensions were manifested in the recent political crisis.
The symptoms of the disease manifested themselves ten days later.
His nervousness was manifest to all those present.
The anger he felt is manifest in his paintings.
manifestly unfair
The party has manifestly failed to achieve its goal.
a boat to/from the mainland
The Hebrides are to the west of the Scottish mainland.
mainland Greece
mainline churches/faiths
At 18 he was mainlining heroin.
They eat mainly fruit and nuts.
'Where do you export to?' 'France, mainly.'
The population almost doubles in summer, mainly because of the jazz festival.
Anorexia is an illness that occurs mainly in adolescents.
The people in the hotel were mainly foreign tourists.
Cocoa is the country's economic mainstay.
His radical views place him outside the mainstream of American politics.
mainstream education
Vegetarianism has been mainstreamed.
The mainstream media was/were not covering the story.
to maintain law and order/standards/a balance
The two countries have always maintained close relations.
(formal) She maintained a dignified silence.
to maintain prices (= prevent them falling or rising)
The house is large and difficult to maintain.
The men maintained (that) they were out of the country when the crime was committed.
She has always maintained her innocence.
'But I'm innocent!' she maintained.
Her income was barely enough to maintain one child, let alone three.
The school pays for heating and the maintenance of the buildings.
car maintenance
the maintenance of international peace
He has to pay maintenance to his ex-wife.
child maintenance
a maintenance order (= given by a court of law)
Nobody mentioned anything to me about it.
Sorry, I won't mention it again.
Now that you mention it, she did seem to be in a strange mood.
His name has been mentioned as a future MP.
Did she mention where she was going?
You mentioned in your letter that you might be moving abroad.
Did I mention going to see Vicky on Sunday?
He has two big houses in this country, not to mention his villa in France.
He made no mention of her work.
The concert didn't even get a mention in the newspapers.
Phil deserves (a) special mention for all the help he gave us.
Maj. (Tony) Davies
Maj. Gen. (= Major General)
the sheer majesty of St Peter's in Rome
the majesty of the music
a major road
major international companies
to play a major role in sth
We have encountered major problems.
There were calls for major changes to the welfare system.
Never mind—it's not major.
the key of D major
Major Smith
He's a major in the US army.
Her major is French.
She's a French major.
She majored in History at Stanford.
Major General William Hunt
a major-league team
a major-league business
The majority of people interviewed prefer TV to radio.
The majority was/were in favour of banning smoking.
This treatment is not available in the vast majority of hospitals.
a majority decision (= one that is decided by what most people want)
In the nursing profession, women are in a/the majority.
She was elected by/with a majority of 749.
a clear (= large) majority
They had a large majority over their nearest rivals.
The government does not have an overall majority (= more members than all the other parties added together).
The resolution was carried by a huge majority.
majorly disappointed
If people can bribe police officers, it makes a complete nonsense of the legal system.
The trial made a mockery of justice.
It's getting late—we'd better make a move.
It's going to be difficult to find the time but I'll make a plan.
She was making a play for the sales manager's job.
I made a point of closing all the windows before leaving the house.
The cleaning staff extended their strike mainly to make a statement about how determined they were.
The way you dress makes a statement about you.
The rebels waited until nightfall before they made their move.
We made excellent time and arrived in Spain in two days.
He made great play of the fact that his uncle was a duke.
The movie should make money.
There's money to be made from tourism.
Make no mistake (about it), this is one crisis that won't just go away.
The company has been making noises about closing several factories.
to make ready for the President's visit
His hypocrisy makes me sick.
This sentence doesn't make sense.
It makes sense to buy the most up-to-date version.
There are strict medicals for pilots, which makes good sense.
John wasn't making much sense on the phone.
Who would send me all these flowers? It makes no sense.
Liverpool made short work of the opposition (= in a football/soccer game).
He made short work of his lunch (= ate it quickly).
He made all the right noises at the meeting yesterday (= said what people wanted to hear).
Make sure (that) no one finds out about this.
They scored another goal and made sure of victory.
Our staff will do their best to make sure you enjoy your visit.
She looked around to make sure that she was alone.
I think the door's locked, but I'll just go and make sure.
If he wants to see me, he should make the first move.
Can I use your phone?
Have you ever used this software before?
How often do you use (= travel by) the bus?
They were able to achieve a settlement without using military force.
I have some information you may be able to use (= to get an advantage from).
The blue files are used for storing old invoices.
Police used tear gas to disperse the crowds.
The building is currently being used as a warehouse.
You can't keep using your bad back as an excuse.
This type of heater uses a lot of electricity.
I hope you haven't used all the milk.
The poem uses simple language.
That's a word I never use.
You have to use the past tense.
Can't you see he's just using you for his own ends?
I felt used.
Most of the inmates have used drugs at some point in their lives.
(slang) She's been using since she was 13.
Making soup is a good way of using up leftover vegetables.
A ban was imposed on the use of chemical weapons.
The software is designed for use in schools.
I'm not sure that this is the most valuable use of my time.
The chapel was built in the 12th century and is still in use today.
The bar is for the use of members only.
I'm sure you'll think of a use for it.
This chemical has a wide range of industrial uses.
I have the use of the car this week.
He lost the use of his legs (= became unable to walk) in an accident.
We could make better use of our resources.
She'll be able to put her languages to good use in her new job.
He doesn't speak much Japanese but he can make himself understood.
They live in a world of make-believe.
'Let's play make-believe,' said Sam.
eye make-up
to put on your make-up
She never wears make-up.
a make-up artist (= a person whose job is to put make-up on the faces of actors and models)
Jealousy is not part of his make-up.
a person's genetic make-up
the make-up of a TV audience
(specialist) the page make-up of a text (= the way in which the words and pictures are arranged on a page)
In some departments there is too much make-work.
These are simply make-work schemes for accountants.
a decision/law/policy maker
programme makers
a new film/movie from the makers of 'Terminator'
If it doesn't work, send it back to the maker.
an electric coffee-maker
one of the best winemakers in France
A few cushions formed a makeshift bed.
a makuti roof
malpractice
malodorous
malfunction
Violent crime is only one of the maladies afflicting modern society.
economic/financial/social malaise
a serious malaise among the staff
malarial insects/patients/regions
a male bird
All the attackers were male, aged between 25 and 30.
a male nurse/model/colleague
male attitudes to women
male bonding (= the act of forming close friendships between men)
the male menopause (= emotional and physical problems that affect some men at about the age of 50)
a male flower
the chromosome that determines maleness
The male of the species has a white tail.
a male-dominated profession
(formal) The body is that of a white male aged about 40.
I hate working for that male chauvinist pig Steve.
an act of pure malevolence
Some fetal malformations cannot be diagnosed until late in pregnancy.
He sent the letter out of malice.
She is entirely without malice.
He certainly bears you no malice (= does not want to harm you).
malicious gossip/lies/rumours
He took malicious pleasure in telling me what she had said.
She feels she has been much maligned by the press.
a malign force/influence/effect
malignant cells
Let's go to the mall.
Some teenagers were hanging out at the mall.
medical malpractice
a malpractice suit
He is currently standing trial for alleged malpractices.
malted barley
Leave this work to us, mama.
Miriam Makeba became known as Mama Africa.
Mama Ngina Kenyatta
mammary glands (= parts of the breast that produce milk)
a mammoth task
a financial crisis of mammoth proportions
a good-looking young man
the relationships between men and women
the damage caused by man to the environment
early/modern/prehistoric man
All men must die.
a Frenchman
a businessman
a medical man
a sportsman
a betting/drinking/fighting man
the BBC's man in Moscow (= the man who reports on news from Moscow)
a loyal Republican Party man
The officer refused to let his men take part in the operation.
the gas man
The man's coming to repair the TV today.
Nice shirt, man!
Hey man. Back off!
Don't just stand there, man—get a doctor!
What's her new man like?
I now pronounce you man and wife (= you are now officially married).
Come on, now—be a man.
She's more of a man than he is.
My man will drive you home.
Politicians often don't understand the views of the man in the street.
I'm telling you all this man to man.
a man-to-man talk
At school he was always the odd man out.
Dog, cat, horse, shoe—which is the odd one out?
Sparkling white wine is the poor man's champagne.
Soldiers manned barricades around the city.
The telephones are manned 24 hours a day by volunteers.
He should man up and tell his boss what he really thinks.
Man, that was great!
a man-eating tiger
a man-made lake
man-made fibres such as nylon and polyester
a man-sized breakfast
a career in management
hotel/project management
a management training course
The report blames bad management.
The management is/are considering closing the factory.
The shop is now under new management.
junior/middle/senior management
a management decision/job
My role is to act as a mediator between employees and management.
Most managements are keen to avoid strikes.
classroom management
time management (= the way in which you organize how you spend your time)
management of staff
Diet plays an important role in the management of heart disease.
In spite of his disappointment, he managed a weak smile.
I don't know exactly how we'll manage it, but we will, somehow.
Can you manage another piece of cake?(= eat one)
We managed to get to the airport in time.
How did you manage to persuade him?
(humorous) He always manages to say the wrong thing.
We couldn't have managed without you.
'Need any help?' 'No, thanks. I can manage.'
She's 82 and can't manage on her own any more.
How do you manage without a car?
He has to manage on less than £100 a week.
Don't tell me how to manage my affairs.
a computer program that helps you manage data efficiently
Let's meet up again—can you manage next week sometime?
to manage a factory/bank/hotel/soccer team
to manage a department/project
We need people who are good at managing.
It's like trying to manage an unruly child.
Can you manage that suitcase?
Use conditioner regularly to make your hair soft and manageable.
The debt has been reduced to a more manageable level.
The money will be invested in managed funds.
Only wood from managed forests is used in our furniture.
a bank/hotel manager
the sales/marketing/personnel manager
a meeting of area managers
the new manager of Italy
Does she have any managerial experience?
The election victory gave the party a clear mandate to continue its programme of reform.
a mandate for an end to the civil war
The presidential mandate is limited to two terms of four years each.
The bank had no mandate to honour the cheque.
The law mandates that imported goods be identified as such.
The assembly was mandated to draft a constitution.
mandated territories
a mandated curriculum
a mandated government
The offence carries a mandatory life sentence.
It is mandatory for blood banks to test all donated blood for the virus.
a mangy dog
a mangy old coat
His hand was mangled in the machine.
mangled bodies/remains
mangrove swamps
Bystanders claim they were manhandled by security guards.
They were trying to manhandle an old sofa across the road.
Her new-found power was a threat to his manhood.
The nation's manhood died on the battlefields of World War I.
He had a mania for fast cars.
Football mania is sweeping the country.
He was driving like a maniac.
a maniac driver/killer
maniacal laughter
Things are manic in the office at the moment.
The performers had a manic energy and enthusiasm.
manic mood swings
I rushed around manically, trying to finish the housework.
to have a manicure
The riots are a clear manifestation of the people's discontent.
Some manifestation of your concern would have been appreciated.
The church is the site of a number of supernatural manifestations.
an election manifesto
the party manifesto
The possibilities were manifold.
the exhaust manifold
She uses her charm to manipulate people.
As a politician, he knows how to manipulate public opinion.
They managed to manipulate us into agreeing to help.
to manipulate the gears and levers of a machine
Computers are very efficient at manipulating information.
Advertising like this is a cynical manipulation of the elderly.
data manipulation
manipulation of the bones of the back
manipulative skills such as typing and knitting
the history of mankind
an invention for the good of all mankind
(figurative) To the refugees, the food shipments were manna from heaven (= an unexpected and very welcome gift).
manned space flight
She answered in a businesslike manner.
The manner in which the decision was announced was extremely regrettable.
to have an aggressive/a friendly/a relaxed manner
His manner was polite but cool.
to have good/bad manners
It is bad manners to talk with your mouth full.
He has no manners (= behaves very badly).
the social morals and manners of the seventeenth century
What manner of man could do such a terrible thing?
a bad-mannered child
nervous/odd/irritating mannerisms
It's time to settle this mano-a-mano.
a highly manoeuvrable vehicle
a complicated/skilful manoeuvre
You will be asked to perform some standard manoeuvres during your driving test.
diplomatic manoeuvres
a complex manoeuvre in a game of chess
The army is on manoeuvres in the desert.
The yachts manoeuvred for position.
There was very little room to manoeuvre.
She manoeuvred the car carefully into the garage.
The new laws have left us little room to manoeuvre (= not much opportunity to change or influence a situation).
She manoeuvred her way to the top of the company.
a need for trained/skilled manpower
a manpower shortage
He's really an artist manqué.
an 18th century country mansion
2 Moscow Mansions, Cromwell Road
The vice-president must now take on the mantle of supreme power.
hills with a mantle of snow
a Buddhist mantra
manual labour/jobs/skills
manual and non-manual workers
a manual gearbox
My camera has manual and automatic functions.
manual dexterity
manually operated
a computer/a car/an instruction manual
Leave the controls on manual.
manufactured goods
a news story manufactured by an unscrupulous journalist
Vitamins cannot be manufactured by our bodies.
the manufacture of cars
a major importer of cotton manufactures
a car/computer manufacturer
Always follow the manufacturer's instructions.
Faulty goods should be returned to the manufacturers.
Many jobs in manufacturing were lost during the recession.
an unpublished/original manuscript
I read her poems in manuscript.
medieval illuminated manuscripts
We don't have very many copies left.
You can't have one each. We haven't got many.
Many people feel that the law should be changed.
Many of those present disagreed.
How many children do you have?
There are too many mistakes in this essay.
He made ten mistakes in as many (= in ten) lines.
New drivers have twice as many accidents as experienced drivers.
Don't take so many.
I've known her for a great many (= very many) years.
Even if one person is hurt that is one too many.
It was one of my many mistakes.
a many-headed monster
a government which improves conditions for the many
Many a good man has been destroyed by drink.
Many's the time I heard her use those words.
a map of France
a street map of Miami
to read a/the map (= understand the information on a map)
large-scale maps
Can you find Black Hill on the map?
I'll draw you a map of how to get to my house.
The exhibition has helped put the city on the map.
an unexplored region that has not yet been mapped
It is now possible to map the different functions of the brain.
the mapping of the Indian subcontinent
gene mapping
Grammar information enables students to map the structure of a foreign language onto their own.
He has his career path clearly mapped out.
The game was marred by the behaviour of drunken fans.
the London marathon
to run a marathon
The interview was a real marathon.
a marathon journey lasting 56 hours
a marathon legal battle
marauding wolves
a slab/block of marble
a marble floor/sculpture
Three boys were playing marbles.
He's losing his marbles (= he's not behaving in a sensible way).
marbled wallpaper
Soldiers were marching up and down outside the government buildings.
Quick march!(= the order to start marching)
They marched 20 miles to reach the capital.
She marched over to me and demanded an apology.
The guards marched the prisoner away.
Time marches on and we still have not made a decision.
Several thousand people marched on City Hall.
protest marches
to go on a march
The army began their long march to the coast.
the march of progress/technology/time
a funeral march
The enemy are on the march.
I had a complete mare booking tickets for the concert.
Mahatma Gandhi Marg
He trekked along the lonely Badrinath paidal marg.
(figurative) The Bhatki marg (the path of devotion) teaches followers to forget the physical self in pursuit of the Lord.
the left-hand/right-hand margin
a narrow/wide margin
notes scribbled in the margin
He won by a narrow margin.
She beat the other runners by a margin of ten seconds.
What are your average operating margins?
a gross margin of 45%
a safety margin
The narrow gateway left me little margin for error as I reversed the car.
the eastern margin of the Indian Ocean
people living on the margins of society
The survey has a margin of error of 2.5%.
a marginal improvement in weather conditions
The story will only be of marginal interest to our readers.
marginal groups in society
a marginal seat/constituency
marginal notes/comments
a Labour marginal
the marginalization of the elderly
They now cost marginally more than they did last year.
a mariachi band
marine life
a marine biologist (= a scientist who studies life in the sea)
marital difficulties/breakdown
questions about age, sex and marital status
a maritime museum
maritime Antarctica
Items marked with an asterisk can be omitted.
Prices are marked on the goods.
The teacher marked her absent (= made a mark by her name to show that she was absent).
Why have you marked this wrong?
Do not open any mail marked 'Confidential'.
A large purple scar marked his cheek.
The surfaces are made from a material that doesn't mark.
The cross marks the spot where the body was found.
The route has been marked in red.
a ceremony to mark the 50th anniversary of the end of the war
This speech may mark a change in government policy.
The agreement marks a new phase in international relations.
I hate marking exam papers.
I spend at least six hours a week marking.
a life marked by suffering
He was marked as an enemy of the poor.
There'll be trouble over this, mark my words.
You mark what I say, John.
Hughes was marking Taylor.
Our defence had him closely marked.
I'm just marking time in this job—I'm hoping to get into journalism.
She hasn't had much success yet. Mark you, she tries hard.
She was marked down because of poor grammar.
I hadn't got him marked down as a liberal.
All goods have been marked down by 15%.
The factory is already marked down for demolition.
Each of London's districts had a distinct character that marked it off from its neighbours.
The playing area was marked off with a white line.
She was marked out for early promotion.
They marked out a tennis court on the lawn.
Share prices were marked up as soon as trading started.
to mark up a manuscript
The children left dirty marks all over the kitchen floor.
a burn/scratch mark
Detectives found no marks on the body.
a horse with a white mark on its head
He was about six feet tall, with no distinguishing marks.
punctuation marks
Any piece of silver bearing his mark is extremely valuable.
I put a mark in the margin to remind me to check the figure.
On the day of the funeral businesses remained closed as a mark of respect.
Such coolness under pressure is the mark of a champion.
to get a good/poor mark in English
to give sb a high/low mark
What's the pass mark (= the mark you need in order to pass)?
I got full marks (= the highest mark possible) in the spelling test.
(ironic) 'You're wearing a tie!' ' Full marks for observation.'
Unemployment has passed the four million mark.
She was leading at the half-way mark.
the Mark II engine
Preheat the oven to gas Mark 6.
Of the blows delivered, barely half found their mark.
to hit/miss the mark
Your work isn't really up to the mark.
Their predictions turned out to be wide of the mark.
a marked difference/improvement
a marked increase in profits
She is quiet and studious, in marked contrast to her sister.
Her background is markedly different from her husband's.
This year's sales have risen markedly.
a boundary marker
He placed a marker where the ball had landed.
Price is not always an accurate marker of quality.
a fruit/a flower/an antiques market
an indoor/a street market
market stalls/traders
We buy our fruit and vegetables at the market.
Thursday is market day.
a market town (= a town in Britain where a regular market is or was held)
the world market in coffee
They have increased their share of the market by 10%.
the property/job market (= the number and type of houses, jobs, etc. that are available)
They have cornered the market in sportswear (= sell the most).
the Japanese market
the global/domestic market
a growing/declining market for second-hand cars
The market will decide if the TV station has any future.
a market-based/market-driven/market-led economy
a market crash
to put your house on the market
The house came on the market last year.
There are hundreds of different brands on the market.
It is marketed as a low-alcohol wine.
School meals need to be marketed to children in the same way as other food.
They claim to have a 40% worldwide market share.
marketable products/skills/qualifications
a free marketeer (= a person who believes in a free market system of trade)
a marketing campaign
She works in sales and marketing.
a company that is a developer and marketer of software
Companies must be able to survive in the marketplace.
the education marketplace
Road markings indicate where you can stop.
She does her marking in the evenings.
an average markup of 10%
a markup language
blue marl leggings
Marmite sandwiches
a marmite issue
They're a marmite band.
'Lord of the Flies' is a novel about English schoolboys marooned on a desert island.
the Porsche marque
He is one of the marquee names in men's tennis.
the Marquess of Bath
a happy/an unhappy marriage
All of her children's marriages ended in divorce.
an arranged marriage (= one in which the parents choose a husband or wife for their child)
She has two children by a previous marriage.
They don't believe in marriage.
My parents are celebrating 30 years of marriage.
Their marriage took place in a local church.
She had reached marriageable age.
a married man/woman
Is he married?
a happily married couple
She's married to John.
Rachel and David are getting married on Saturday.
How long have you been married?
Are you enjoying married life?
Her married name (= the family name of her husband) is Jones.
My brother is married to his job.
She married a German.
He never married.
I guess I'm not the marrying kind (= the kind of person who wants to get married).
They married young.
They were married by the local priest.
The music business marries art and commerce.
She married into the aristocracy.
Cows were grazing on the marshes.
marshy ground/land
Field Marshal Lord Haig
Marshal of the Royal Air Force
a federal marshal
They have begun marshalling forces to send relief to the hurricane victims.
to marshal your arguments/thoughts/facts
Police were brought in to marshal the crowd.
a used car mart
a pine marten
to declare/impose/lift martial law
The city remains firmly under martial law.
a dry martini
the early Christian martyrs
a martyr to the cause of freedom
She's a martyr to her nerves.
She wore a perpetually martyred expression.
the marvels of nature/technology
The doctors have done marvels for her.
Everyone marvelled at his courage.
This will be a marvellous opportunity for her.
The weather was marvellous.
It's marvellous what modern technology can do.
Marxist theory/doctrine/ideology
Where is everyone? It's like the Mary Celeste here today.
chicken masala
The team's mascot is a giant swan.
Fuleco—the official mascot of the 2014 FIFA World Cup
He was handsome and strong, and very masculine.
That suit makes her look very masculine.
'He' and 'him' are masculine pronouns.
The French word for 'sun' is masculine.
He felt it was a threat to his masculinity.
The soup was a mash of grain and vegetables.
Mash the fruit up with a fork.
mashed banana
a video mashup
a gas/surgical mask
The robbers wore stocking masks.
The kids were all wearing animal masks.
a face mask
He longed to throw off the mask of respectability.
Her face was a cold blank mask.
a masked gunman
You spent the whole weekend in a tent in the rain? That's masochism!
masochistic behaviour/tendencies
She was injured by falling masonry.
He acquired a knowledge of carpentry and masonry (= building with stone)
commercial advertisers masquerading as private individuals
a mass of snow and rocks falling down the mountain
The hill appeared as a black mass in the distance.
The sky was full of dark masses of clouds.
a mass of blonde hair
I began sifting through the mass of evidence.
I struggled through the mass of people to the exit.
The page was covered with a mass of figures.
There were masses of people in the shops yesterday.
I've got masses of work to do.
Don't give me any more. I've eaten masses!
government attempts to suppress dissatisfaction among the masses
a TV programme that brings science to the masses
The reforms are unpopular with the mass of teachers and parents.
calculating the mass of a planet
a mass of 46.3 kg
mass unemployment/production
Their latest product is aimed at the mass market.
Demonstrators had massed outside the embassy.
Dark clouds massed on the horizon.
The general massed his troops for a final attack.
the massed ranks of his political opponents
to go to Mass
a priest celebrating/saying Mass
Bach's Mass in B minor
mass-produced goods
the mass production of consumer goods
the bloody massacre of innocent civilians
Nobody survived the massacre.
The game was a 10–0 massacre for our team.
Massage will help the pain.
to give sb a massage
massage oils
He massaged the aching muscles in her feet.
(figurative) to massage sb's ego (= to make sb feel better, more confident, attractive, etc.)
Massage the cream into your skin.
The government was accused of massaging the unemployment figures.
a massive rock
the massive walls of the castle
The explosion made a massive hole in the ground.
a massive increase in spending
He suffered a massive heart attack.
(BrE, informal) Their house is massive.
They have a massive great house.
They lived in fear of their master.
She was no longer master of her own future.
a master of disguise
a master of the serve-and-volley game
The dog saved its master's life.
the physics master
He has a Master's in Business Administration.
a Master of Arts/Science
an exhibition of work by the French master, Monet
the master copy
the Master of Wolfson College
to master new skills/techniques
French was a language he had never mastered.
She struggled hard to master her temper.
the master bedroom
a master file/switch
a masterful performance
He took her arm masterfully and led her away.
She has mastery of several languages.
human mastery of the natural world
a masterly performance
Her handling of the situation was masterly.
The museum houses several of his Cubist masterpieces.
Her work is a masterpiece of (= an excellent example of) simplicity.
Wipe your feet on the mat before you come in, please.
a judo/an exercise mat
a beer mat
a mat of hair
a box of matches
to strike a match (= to make it burn)
to put a match to sth (= set fire to sth)
(BrE) a football match
(NAmE, BrE) a tennis match
They are playing an important match against Liverpool on Saturday.
to win/lose a match
I was no match for him at tennis.
I was his match at tennis.
The curtains and carpet are a good match.
Jo and Ian are a perfect match for each other.
I've found a vase that is an exact match of the one I broke.
The doors were painted blue to match the walls.
a scarf with gloves to match
None of these glasses match (= they are all different).
Her fingerprints match those found at the scene of the crime.
As a couple they are not very well matched (= they are not very suitable for each other).
The two sets of figures don't match.
The aim of the competition is to match the quote to the person who said it.
The profits made in the first year have never been matched.
The teams were evenly matched.
The company was unable to match his current salary.
Investment in hospitals is needed now to match the future needs of the country.
You can mix and match courses to suit your requirements.
New information is matched against existing data in the computer.
We are matched against last year's champions in the first round.
The trip failed to match up to her expectations.
The suspects' stories just don't match up.
She spent the morning matching up orders with invoices.
Several countries have suffered soccer match-fixing scandals.
a pine table with four matching chairs
matchless beauty/skill
starving children with legs like matchsticks
They've been best mates since school.
I was with a mate.
Sorry mate, you'll have to wait.
All right, mate?
workmates/teammates/playmates/classmates
my room-mate/flatmate
A male bird sings to attract a mate.
a builder's/plumber's mate
Do foxes ever mate with dogs?
a piece of material
'What material is this dress made of?' 'Cotton.'
building materials (= bricks, sand, glass, etc.)
teaching materials
The company produces its own training material.
(figurative) The teacher saw her as good university material (= good enough to go to university).
She's collecting material for her latest novel.
The band played all new material at the gig.
material comforts
changes in your material circumstances
the material world
material evidence
She omitted information that was material to the case.
Materially they are no better off.
Their comments have not materially affected our plans (= in a noticeable or important way).
The promotion he had been promised failed to materialize.
A tall figure suddenly materialized at her side.
(informal) The train failed to materialize (= it did not come).
maternal love
I'm not very maternal.
She didn't have any maternal instincts.
Maternal age affects the baby's survival rate.
my maternal grandfather (= my mother's father)
She behaved maternally towards her students.
maternity clothes (= clothes for women who are pregnant)
a maternity ward/hospital (= one where women go to give birth to their babies)
She started off being quite matey with everyone.
a math teacher
Is your math correct?
the school mathematics curriculum
He worked out the very difficult mathematics in great detail.
mathematical calculations/problems/models
to assess children's mathematical ability
It's mathematically impossible.
Some people are very mathematically inclined (= interested in and good at mathematics).
The core subjects are English, Maths and Science.
a maths teacher
If my maths is/are right, the answer is 142.
the mating season
The animals live in matriarchal groups.
We studied that book in matric.
He passed matric with four distinctions.
She's preparing to write matric.
A senior certificate with matric exemption is required for entry to university.
She matriculated in 1995.
She traced her family history by matrilineal descent (= starting with her mother, her mother's mother, etc.).
matrimonial problems
the matrimonial home
holy matrimony
the European cultural matrix
a matrix of paths
a matt finish
matt white paint
Prints are available on matt or glossy paper.
It's a private matter.
They had important matters to discuss.
She may need your help with some business matters.
I always consulted him on matters of policy.
It's a matter for the police (= for them to deal with).
That's a matter for you to take up with your boss.
Let's get on with the matter in hand (= what we need to deal with now).
I wasn't prepared to let the matter drop (= stop discussing it).
It was no easy matter getting him to change his mind.
It should have been a simple matter to check.
(ironic) And then there's the little matter of the fifty pounds you owe me.
(formal) It was a matter of some concern to most of those present (= something they were worried about).
I did not feel that we had got to the heart of the matter (= the most important part).
And that is the crux of the matter (= the most important thing about the situation).
Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do to improve matters.
I'd forgotten the keys, which didn't help matters.
Matters were made worse by a fire in the warehouse.
And then, to make matters worse, his parents turned up.
I decided to take matters into my own hands (= deal with the situation myself).
Matters came to a head (= the situation became very difficult) with his resignation.
What's the matter? Is there something wrong?
Is anything the matter?
Is something the matter with Bob? He seems very down.
There's something the matter with my eyes.
'We've bought a new TV.' 'What was the matter with the old one?'
What's the matter with you today (= why are you behaving like this)?
Learning to drive is all a matter of coordination.
Planning a project is just a matter of working out the right order to do things in.
That's not a problem. It's simply a matter of letting people know in time.
Some people prefer the older version to the new one. It's a matter of taste.
She resigned over a matter of principle.
The government must deal with this as a matter of urgency.
Just as a matter of interest (= because it is interesting, not because it is important), how much did you pay for it?
'I think this is the best so far.' 'Well, that's a matter of opinion (= other people may think differently).
to study the properties of matter
Add plenty of organic matter to improve the soil.
elimination of waste matter from the body
She didn't approve of their choice of reading matter.
They don't last long no matter how careful you are.
Call me when you get there, no matter what the time is.
The children matter more to her than anything else in the world.
'What did you say?' 'Oh, it doesn't matter' (= it is not important enough to repeat).
'I'm afraid I forgot that book again.' 'It doesn't matter (= it is not important enough to worry about).'
What does it matter if I spent $100 on it—it's my money!
As long as you're happy, that's all that matters.
After his death, nothing seemed to matter any more.
He's been in prison, you know— not that it matters (= that information does not affect my opinion of him).
Does it really matter who did it?
It doesn't matter to me what you do.
It didn't matter that the weather was bad.
She told us the news of his death in a very matter-of-fact way.
coconut matting
a soft/hard mattress
Jane is very mature for her age.
a mature and sensible attitude
sexually mature
a mature oak/eagle/elephant
a man of mature years
This particular breed of cattle matures early.
Technology in this field has matured considerably over the last decade.
He has matured a great deal over the past year.
She has matured into one of the country's finest actresses.
He has maturity beyond his years.
Her poems show great maturity.
The forest will take 100 years to reach maturity.
The play received a mauling from the critics.
They face a mauling by last year's winners.
the royal mausoleum
a maverick film director
a mawkish poem
max temperature 18°C
It'll cost $50 max.
She believes in living life to the max.
The car maxed out at 150 mph.
a maxillary fracture
the maximum speed/temperature/volume
For maximum effect do the exercises every day.
a maximum security prison
a maximum of 30 children in a class
The job will require you to use all your skills to the maximum.
The July maximum (= the highest temperature recorded in July) was 30°C.
What is the absolute maximum you can afford to pay?
to maximize efficiency/fitness/profits
(computing 计算机) Maximize the window to full screen.
to maximize opportunities/resources
That may or may not be true.
He may have (= perhaps he has) missed his train.
They may well win.
There is a range of programs on the market which may be described as design aids.
He may be a good father but he's a terrible husband.
May I come in?
You may come in if you wish.
You look lovely, if I may say so.
May I ask why you took that decision?
If I may just add one thing…
May she rest in peace.
Business has been thriving in the past year. Long may it continue to do so.
There is a need for more resources so that all children may have a decent education.
If no one else wants it, we might as well give it to him.
There was absolute mayhem when everyone tried to get out at once.
egg mayonnaise (= a dish made with hard-boiled eggs and mayonnaise )
the Lord Mayor of London
the Mayor of New York
Mayor Bob Anderson
mayoral robes/duties
We got lost in the maze.
(figurative) The building is a maze of corridors.
a maze of regulations
Philip Watt MB
512MB of memory
to do an MBA
She was made an MBE in 2007.
Jim Cronin MBE
It's an American flying jacket, the real McCoy.
Paul Clark MD
Where's the MD's office?
Don't hit me.
Excuse me!
Give it to me.
You're taller than me.
Hello, it's me.
'Who's there?' 'Only me.'
The spa is popular with women who want a bit of me-time.
The magazine 'Hello!' gave rise to a number of me-too publications.
water meadows (= near a river)
a meagre diet of bread and water
She supplements her meagre income by cleaning at night.
Try not to eat between meals.
Lunch is his main meal of the day.
(especially BrE) to go out for a meal (= to go to a restaurant to have a meal)
What time would you like your evening meal?
Enjoy your meal.
a three-course meal
He suspected that he was just a meal ticket for her.
mealy-mouthed politicians
What does this sentence mean?
What is meant by 'batch processing'?
Does the name 'Jos Vos' mean anything to you (= do you know who he is)?
The flashing light means (that) you must stop.
What did he mean by that remark?
'Perhaps we should try another approach.' ' What do you mean? (= I don't understand what you are suggesting.) '
What do you mean, you thought I wouldn't mind?(= of course I mind and I am very angry)
What she means is that there's no point in waiting here.
I always found him a little strange, if you know what I mean (= if you understand what I mean by 'strange').
I know what you mean (= I understand and feel sympathy). I hated learning to drive too.
(informal) It was like—weird. Know what I mean?
I see what you mean (= I understand although I may not agree), but I still think it's worth trying.
See what I mean (= I was right and this proves it, doesn't it)? She never agrees to anything I suggest.
'But Pete doesn't know we're here!' ' That's what I mean! (= that's what I have been trying to tell you.) '
Do you mean Ann Smith or Mary Smith?
Did he mean (that) he was dissatisfied with our service?
You mean (= are you telling me) we have to start all over again?
What did she mean by leaving so early (= why did she do it)?
Don't laugh! I mean it (= I am serious).
He means trouble (= to cause trouble).
Don't be upset—I'm sure she meant it as a compliment.
He means what he says (= is not joking, exaggerating, etc.).
The chair was clearly meant for a child.
Don't be angry. I'm sure she meant it for the best (= intended to be helpful).
She means to succeed.
I'm sorry I hurt you. I didn't mean to.
I'm feeling very guilty— I've been meaning to call my parents for days, but still haven't got around to it.
I didn't mean you to read the letter.
You're meant to (= you are supposed to) pay before you go in.
(formal) I never meant (that) you should come alone.
I was never meant for the army (= did not have the qualities needed to become a soldier).
Duncan and Makiko were meant for each other (= are very suitable as partners).
His father meant him to be an engineer.
She did everything to get the two of them together, but I guess it just wasn't meant to be.
Spending too much now will mean a shortage of cash next year.
Do you have any idea what it means to be poor?
We'll have to be careful with money but that doesn't mean (that) we can't enjoy ourselves.
This new order will mean working overtime.
The injury could mean him missing next week's game.
Your friendship means a great deal to me.
$20 means a lot (= represents a lot of money) when you live on $100 a week.
Money means nothing to him.
Her children mean the world to her.
I mean to say, you should have known how he would react!
Do you mean to say you've lost it?
She's always been mean with money.
Don't be so mean to your little brother!
That's a mean-looking dog.
He's a mean tennis player.
She plays a mean game of chess.
the mean temperature
This should be clear even to the meanest intelligence.
mean houses/streets
He needed to find a mean between frankness and rudeness.
The stream meanders slowly down to the sea.
the meanders of a river
the meanderings of a river/path
his philosophical meanderings
What's the meaning of this word?
Words often have several meanings.
'Honesty'? He doesn't know the meaning of the word!
I don't quite get your meaning (= understand what you mean to say).
What's the meaning of this? I explicitly told you not to leave the room.
With Anna he learned the meaning of love.
several layers of meaning
There are, of course, deeper meanings in the poem.
Her life seemed to have lost all meaning.
Having a child gave new meaning to their lives.
a meaningful relationship/discussion/experience
She gave me a meaningful look.
These statistics are not very meaningful.
a meaningless existence
We fill up our lives with meaningless tasks.
Fines are meaningless to a huge company like that.
To me that painting is completely meaningless.
Television is an effective means of communication.
Is there any means of contacting him?
Have you any means of identification?
We needed to get to London but we had no means of transport.
People should pay according to their means.
He doesn't have the means to support a wife and child.
Private school fees are beyond the means of most people (= more than they can afford).
Are the monthly repayments within your means (= can you afford them)?
Try to live within your means (= not spend more money than you have).
a man of means (= a rich man)
means-tested benefits
I'll contact them soon. Meantime don't tell them I'm back.
Bob spent fifteen months alone on his yacht. Ann, meanwhile, took care of the children on her own.
The doctor will see you again next week. Meanwhile, you must rest as much as possible.
Stress can be extremely damaging to your health. Exercise, meanwhile, can reduce its effects.
It is not merely a job, but a way of life.
He said nothing, merely smiled and watched her.
They agreed to go merely because they were getting paid for it.
I'm merely stating what everybody knows anyway.
I get a measly £4 an hour.
measurable improvements
Working conditions have changed measurably in the last ten years.
A ship's speed is measured in knots.
a device that measures the level of radiation in the atmosphere
measuring equipment/instruments
He's gone to be measured for a new suit.
A dipstick is used to measure how much oil is left in an engine.
The main bedroom measures 12ft by 15ft.
The pond measures about 2 metres across.
It is difficult to measure the success of the campaign at this stage.
The figures are not very good when measured against those of our competitors.
He measured out a cup of milk and added it to the mixture.
We spent the morning measuring up and deciding where the furniture would go.
Last year's intake just didn't measure up.
The job failed to measure up to her expectations.
safety/security/austerity measures
a temporary/an emergency measure
We must take preventive measures to reduce crime in the area.
The government is introducing tougher measures to combat crime.
measures against racism
Police in riot gear were in attendance as a precautionary measure.
weights and measures
The Richter Scale is a measure of ground motion.
liquid/dry measure
Which measure of weight do pharmacists use?
a generous measure of whisky
A measure of technical knowledge is desirable in this job.
She achieved some measure of success with her first book.
Sending flowers is a measure of how much you care.
an accurate measure of ability
Is this test a good measure of reading comprehension?
a motion to refer the measure to another committee
a ballot measure (= a change in the law that voters decide on)
She replied in a measured tone to his threat.
He walked down the corridor with measured steps.
the measureless oceans
the metric system of measurement
Accurate measurement is very important in science.
to take sb's chest/waist measurement
Do you know your measurements (= the size of parts of your body)?
The exact measurements of the room are 3 metres 20 by 2 metres 84.
a piece/slice of meat
horse meat (= from a horse)
dog meat (= for a dog)
meat-eating animals
There's not much meat on this chop.
(figurative, humorous) There's not much meat on her (= she is very thin).
This chapter contains the real meat of the writer's argument.
Issues like this are the newspaper's meat and potatoes.
a meat-and-potatoes argument
He's a real meat-and-potatoes guy.
a meaty taste
a meaty discussion
a meaty hand
big, meaty tomatoes
a mechanical device/toy/clock
mechanical parts
mechanical problems/defects
The breakdown was due to a mechanical failure.
a mechanical gesture/response
mechanical processes
a mechanically powered vehicle
She spoke mechanically, as if thinking of something else.
He's always been mechanically minded.
The coast is a mecca for tourists.
a wide selection of merchandise
a car mechanic
the school's car maintenance department where students learn basic mechanics
The exact mechanics of how payment will be made will be decided later.
The production process is now highly mechanized.
the increasing mechanization of farm work
a delicate watch mechanism
mechanisms for dealing with complaints from the general public
the balance mechanism in the ears
Pain acts as a natural defence mechanism.
the mechanistic philosophy that compares the brain to a computer
a med student
She's in med school.
advances in modern medicine
to study/practise medicine
traditional/conventional/orthodox medicine
alternative medicine
Did you take your medicine?
cough medicine
Chinese herbal medicines
Laughter is the best medicine.
to win a gold medal in the Olympics
to award a medal for bravery
Evans has medalled at several international events.
an Olympic medallist
a gold/silver/bronze medallist
He had no right to meddle in her affairs.
Somebody had been meddling with her computer.
the news/broadcasting/national media
The trial was fully reported in the media.
The media was/were accused of influencing the final decision.
Any event attended by the actor received widespread media coverage.
the median age/price
a median point/line
The Secretary-General was asked to mediate in the dispute.
An independent body was brought in to mediate between staff and management.
to mediate differences/disputes/problems
They mediated a settlement.
Educational success is mediated by economic factors.
medical advances/care/research
her medical condition/history/records
the medical profession
a medical student/school
a medical certificate (= a statement by a doctor that gives details of your state of health)
medical or surgical treatment
medically fit/unfit
medicated shampoo/soap
to be on medication
Are you currently taking any medication?
Many flu medications are available without a prescription.
medicinal herbs/plants
medicinal properties/use
(humorous) He claims he keeps a bottle of brandy only for medicinal purposes.
a mediocre musician/talent/performance
I thought the play was only mediocre.
medieval architecture/castles/manuscripts
the literature of the late medieval period
His acting career started brilliantly, then sank into mediocrity.
a brilliant leader, surrounded by mediocrities
They were meditating revenge.
She found peace through yoga and meditation.
He was deep in meditation and didn't see me come in.
his meditations on life and art
She found him in a meditative mood.
a meditative poem
a Mediterranean country
a Mediterranean climate
a medium-size car/business/town
a man of medium height/build
There are three sizes—small, medium and large.
Cook over a medium heat for 15 minutes.
a medium dry white wine
Choose medium to large tomatoes.
the medium of radio/television
electronic/audiovisual media
Television is the modern medium of communication.
A T-shirt can be an excellent medium for getting your message across.
English is the medium of instruction (= the language used to teach other subjects).
Video is a good medium for learning a foreign language.
the medium of paint/poetry/drama
Watercolour is his favourite medium.
The bacteria were growing in a sugar medium.
648 m on (the) medium wave
a medium-sized saucepan
the government's medium-term financial strategy
a medley of Beatles hits
a medley of flavours/smells
the 4 × 100 metres medley
They called her Miss Mouse because she was so meek and mild.
He meekly did as he was told.
Maybe we'll meet again some time.
Did you meet anyone in town?
The committee meets on Fridays.
The Prime Minister met other European leaders for talks.
The President met with senior White House aides.
Let's meet for a drink after work.
We're meeting them outside the theatre at 7.
Will you meet me at the airport?
The hotel bus meets all incoming flights.
I met him off the plane.
Where did you first meet your husband?
(especially BrE) Pleased to meet you.
(NAmE) Nice meeting you.
There's someone I want you to meet.
I don't think we've met.
Smith and Jones met in last year's final.
Smith met Jones in last year's final.
Others have met similar problems.
How she met her death will probably never be known.
The curtains don't meet in the middle.
That's where the river meets the sea.
His hand met hers.
How can we best meet the needs of all the different groups?
Until these conditions are met we cannot proceed with the sale.
I can't possibly meet that deadline.
The cost will be met by the company.
Here's where the rubber meets the road: will consumers actually buy the product?
They met up again later for a drink.
Her proposal met with resistance from the Left.
to meet with success/failure
She was worried that he might have met with an accident.
His suggestion was met with howls of protest.
a track meet
to have/hold/call/attend a meeting
a committee/staff meeting
What time is the meeting?
Helen will chair the meeting (= be in charge of it).
I'll be in a meeting all morning—can you take my calls?
a meeting of the United Nations Security Council
They rely on videoconferencing for virtual meetings.
The meeting voted to accept the pay offer.
At our first meeting I was nervous.
It was a chance meeting that would change my life.
He remembered their childhood meetings with nostalgia.
an athletics meeting
a race meeting
The cafe is a popular meeting place for students.
more than 512 megs of memory
24-meg broadband
The song was a mega hit last year.
They're mega rich.
a megastore
a megawatt
He earns megabucks.
a 512-megabyte flash drive
a 12 megapixel digital camera
a one megaton nuclear bomb
'So how was the movie?' 'Meh. The action scenes aren't awful, but there's nothing great about it.'
She does an OK job on a meh song.
She wore traditional dress and mehndi at the event.
She had her hands decorated with mehndis before her wedding.
A mood of melancholy descended on us.
melancholy thoughts/memories
The melancholy song died away.
a melange of different cultures
mellow autumn colours
Mellow music and lighting helped to create the right atmosphere.
a mellow, fruity wine
Dad's certainly grown mellower with age.
After two glasses of wine, I was feeling mellow.
She had mellowed a great deal since their days at college.
A period spent working abroad had done nothing to mellow him.
The melodic line is carried by the two clarinets.
a haunting melody
The melody is then taken up by the flutes.
old Irish melodies
a few bars of melody drifted towards us
a rich melodious voice
a gripping Victorian melodrama
Instead of tragedy, we got melodrama.
Her love of melodrama meant that any small problem became a crisis.
a melodramatic plot full of deceit and murder
Let's have no more melodramatics, if you don't mind.
a slice of melon
The snow showed no sign of melting.
melting ice
The sun had melted the snow.
First, melt two ounces of butter.
The tension in the room began to melt.
Her trusting smile melted his heart.
At the first sign of trouble, the crowd melted away.
The country is in economic meltdown.
a meltdown on the New York Stock Exchange
his melting eyes
the vast melting pot of American society
a member of staff/society/the family
characteristics common to all members of the species
party/union members
a meeting of member countries/states
How much does it cost to become a member?
an active member of the local church
the Hon. Member for Brent North
Who is eligible to apply for membership of the association?
a membership card/fee
The membership has/have not yet voted.
The club has a membership of more than 500.
a waterproof membrane
Other cultures have similar versions of this meme.
the political and cultural memes of the 21st century
an Internet meme/a blog meme
a memento of our trip to Italy
I have a bad memory for names.
People have short memories (= they soon forget).
He had a long memory for people who had disappointed him.
She can recite the whole poem from memory.
He suffered loss of memory for weeks after the accident.
Are you sure? Memory can play tricks on you.
There hasn't been peace in the country in/within my memory.
It was the worst storm in recent memory.
This hasn't happened in living memory (= nobody alive now can remember it happening).
childhood memories
I have vivid memories of my grandparents.
What is your earliest memory?
The photos bring back lots of good memories.
Her memory lives on (= we still remember her).
to write/send/circulate a memo
football/Beatles memorabilia
a truly memorable occasion
an internal memorandum
a detailed memorandum to the commission on employment policy
a war memorial (= in memory of soldiers who died in a war)
a memorial to victims of the Holocaust
The painting will be a lasting memorial to a remarkable woman.
a memorial statue/plaque/prize
The memorial service will be held at a local church.
the John F Kennedy Memorial Hospital
to memorize a poem
a new initiative aimed at beating the menace of illegal drugs
a sense/an air/a hint of menace in his voice
to demand money with menaces
The forests are being menaced by major development projects.
a menacing face/tone
At night, the dark streets become menacing.
The thunder growled menacingly.
Could you mend my bike for me?
He mended shoes for a living.
They tried to mend their differences.
He's mending slowly after the operation.
My leg is definitely on the mend now.
Does he believe the economy's really on the mend?
road menders
a society sending its menfolk off to war
menial jobs/work
menial tasks like cleaning the floor
to reach (the) menopause
menopausal women/symptoms
The average length of a woman's menstrual cycle is 28 days.
menstrual blood
(formal) a menstrual period
the menswear department
the mental process of remembering
Do you have a mental picture of what it will look like?
I made a mental note to talk to her about it.
He has a complete mental block (= difficulty in understanding or remembering) when it comes to physics.
mental health
a mental disorder/illness/hospital
She was suffering from physical and mental exhaustion.
Watch him. He's mental.
My dad will go mental (= be very angry) when he finds out.
She is sixteen but has a mental age of five.
I cannot understand the mentality of football hooligans.
a criminal/ghetto mentality
mentally ill
The baby is very mentally alert.
Mentally, I began making a list of things I had to do.
the mentor/mentee relationship
mentholated sweets
a mentoring programme
to ask for/look at the menu
What's on the menu (= for dinner) tonight?
a pull-down menu
the Labour MEP for South East Wales
foreign mercenaries
mercenary soldiers
a mercenary society/attitude
She's interested in him for purely mercenary reasons.
millions of pounds' worth of Batman merchandising
builders' merchants (= who sell supplies to the building trade)
a coal/wine merchant
Venice was once a city of rich merchants.
a speed merchant (= sb who likes to drive fast)
noise merchants (= for example, a band who make a lot of noise)
merchant seamen
of merchantable quality
to ask/beg/plead for mercy
They showed no mercy to their hostages.
God have mercy on us.
The troops are on a mercy mission (= a journey to help people) in the war zone.
It's a mercy she wasn't seriously hurt.
a merciful God
They asked her to be merciful to the prisoners.
Death came as a merciful release.
Deaths from the disease are mercifully rare.
Mercifully, everyone arrived on time.
He was treated mercifully.
a merciless killer/attack
the merciless heat of the sun
Emily's mercurial temperament made her difficult to live with.
a brilliant, mercurial mind
It took her a mere 20 minutes to win.
A mere 2% of their budget has been spent on publicity.
He seemed so young, a mere boy.
You've got the job. The interview will be a mere formality.
His mere presence (= just the fact that he was there) made her feel afraid.
The mere fact that they were prepared to talk was encouraging.
The mere thought of eating made him feel sick.
The merest (= the slightest) hint of smoke is enough to make her feel ill.
The banks are set to merge next year.
The two groups have merged to form a new party.
His department will merge with mine.
The villages expanded and merged into one large town.
Fact and fiction merge together in his latest thriller.
His department will be merged with mine.
The company was formed by merging three smaller firms.
The hills merged into the dark sky behind them.
a merger between the two banks
our proposed merger with the university
a lemon meringue pie
a work of outstanding artistic merit
The plan is entirely without merit.
I want to get the job on merit.
We will consider each case on its (own) merits (= without considering any other issues, feelings, etc.).
They weighed up the relative merits of the four candidates.
He claims that their success was not merited.
The case does not merit further investigation.
a merry grin
'Can I bring a friend to your party?' 'Sure—the more the merrier!'
They chatted merrily.
She carried on merrily, not realizing the offence she was causing.
He was tired of the merry-go-round of romance and longed to settle down.
Mrs Hill
Mrs Susan Hill
Mr and Mrs Hill
wire mesh over the door of the cage
This evidence meshes with earlier reports of an organized riot.
His theories mesh together various political and religious beliefs.
If the cogs don't mesh correctly, the gears will keep slipping.
Her performance was mesmerizing.
mesquite-grilled chicken
The room was in a mess.
The kids made a mess in the bathroom.
' What a mess!' she said, surveying the scene after the party.
My hair's a real mess!
The economy is in a mess.
I feel I've made a mess of things.
The whole situation is a mess.
Let's try to sort out the mess.
The biggest question is how they got into this mess in the first place.
You're a mess!
There's a mess of fish down there, so get your lines in the water.
the officers' mess
Careful—you're messing my hair.
We finished in time, no messing.
When they decide to have a party they don't mess around.
Will you stop messing around and get on with some work?
We spent the day messing around on the river.
Who's been messing around with my computer?
I've really messed up this time.
If you cancel now you'll mess up all my arrangements.
He was messed up pretty bad by the other guy.
I don't want you messing up my nice clean kitchen.
I wouldn't mess with him if I were you.
There were no messages for me at the hotel.
We've had an urgent message saying that your father's ill.
Jenny's not here at the moment. Can I take a message?
I left a message on her voicemail.
I've been trying to get you all day—don't you ever listen to your messages?
Messages of support have been arriving from all over the country.
a televised message from the President to the American people
Could I speak to Jay Black, please?
Could you give him a message?
Is there a time that might be good for me to try him again?
Can you let him know I'll call back?
Could you ask him to call me back? My number is…
an email message
There were four messages in my inbox.
He sent me a message.
a film with a strong religious message
The campaign is trying to get the message across to young people that drugs are dangerous.
The message arrives in your brain in a fraction of a second.
to do the messages
to go for the messages
You can leave your messages (= the things that you have bought) here.
Fiona just messaged me.
Brian messaged me the news.
a multimedia messaging service
picture messaging
I posted a question on the message board.
He sent the order by messenger.
a motorcycle messenger
Don't shoot the messenger!
He's seen by many as a political messiah.
The reforms were carried out with an almost messianic zeal.
The house was always messy.
(NAmE) Her long black hair was messy and dirty.
It was a messy job.
The divorce was painful and messy.
Messrs Smith, Brown and Jones
Messrs T Brown and Co
the Met Office weather forecast service
metamorphosis
metabolism
metaphysics
metalanguage
The body's metabolism is slowed down by extreme cold.
a metabolic process/disorder
a high/low metabolic rate
In the metadata she found the author and location of the file.
a piece of metal
a metal pipe/bar/box
The frame is made of metal.
We drove through the night flat-out, with the pedal to the metal.
I'm still putting the pedal to the metal here at work.
metallic paint/colours/blue
a metallic taste
a metallic sound/click
a metallic voice (= that sounds unpleasant)
a metallic object
metallic compounds
cracks in the metalwork
The caterpillar will eventually metamorphose into a butterfly.
the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a butterfly
She had undergone an amazing metamorphosis from awkward schoolgirl to beautiful woman.
a game of football used as a metaphor for the competitive struggle of life
the writer's striking use of metaphor
metaphorical language
I'll leave you in Robin's capable hands— metaphorically speaking, of course!
metaphysical problems/speculation
Severe penalties were meted out by the court.
the violence meted out to the prisoners
a meteor shower
a meteoric rise to fame
a meteoric career
meteoric craters
A man came to read the gas meter.
The cab driver left the meter running while he waited for us.
speedometer
altimeter
calorimeter
Who holds the record in the 100 meters?
the growing meth problem in our rural communities
a reliable/an effective/a scientific method of data analysis
a new method of solving the problem
traditional/alternative methods
the best method for arriving at an accurate prediction of the costs
a methodical approach/study
to have a methodical mind
They sorted slowly and methodically through the papers.
a Methodist church/preacher
recent changes in the methodology of language teaching
methodological problems
I'm feeling older than Methuselah.
meticulous planning/records/research
He's always meticulous in keeping the records up to date.
My father was meticulous about his appearance.
a meticulously planned schedule
meticulously clean
She came second in the 200 metres.
the 4 × 100 metre(s) relay
metric units/measurements/sizes
British currency went metric in 1971.
These screws are metric.
Companies are scored on key financial metrics.
to travel on the metro / by metro
the Paris Metro
a metro station
Here are the temperatures recorded at the four metros at 5 o'clock this morning.
the New York metro areas
His financial problems hit the headlines with almost metronomic regularity.
the New York metropolitan area
metropolitan districts/regions
metropolitan France/Spain
The next game will be a real test of their mettle.
The kitten mewed pitifully.
mewling babies
a bedroom on the mezzanine
a mezzanine floor
'Can I borrow your pen?' 'Mhm.'
'I phoned Alan…' 'Mhm.''…and he said he's going to come.'
A miasma of stale alcohol hung around him.
(figurative) the miasma of depression
It's only a Mickey Mouse job.
microchip
microorganism
a microlitre
The family is a microcosm of society.
The directory is available on microfiche.
The problem may be that you are micromanaging your team.
bosses who micromanage
to speak into the microphone
Their remarks were picked up by the hidden microphones.
a microscope slide
The bacteria were then examined under a/the microscope.
(figurative) In the play, love and marriage are put under the microscope.
a microscopic creature/particle
(humorous) The sandwiches were microscopic!
a microscopic analysis/examination
microscopically small creatures
All samples are examined microscopically.
The museum has a microsite to accompany the exhibition.
Reheat the soup in the microwave.
microwave cookery/meals
microwaveable meals
mid-morning coffee
She's in her mid-thirties.
The bird caught the insects in mid-air
a mid-air collision
the mid-Atlantic states/coast
(figurative) a mid-Atlantic accent (= a form of English that uses a mixture of British and American sounds)
the mid-point of the decade
At its mid-point, the race had no clear winner.
the mid-point between the first number and the last
a mid-range computer
The train arrives at midday.
a midday meal
the heat of the midday sun
a lake with an island in the middle
He was standing in the middle of the room.
The phone rang in the middle of the night.
This chicken isn't cooked in the middle.
His picture was right/bang (= exactly) in the middle of the front page.
Take a sheet of paper and draw a line down the middle.
I should have finished by the middle of the week.
He grabbed her around the middle.
She lives on a small farm in the middle of nowhere.
Pens are kept in the middle drawer.
She's the middle child of three.
He was very successful in his middle forties.
a middle-sized room
the middle-income groups in society
a pleasant woman in early/late middle age
the upper/lower middle class
the growth of the middle classes
His eyes were fixed on a small house in the middle distance.
Negotiations have failed to establish any middle ground.
The ballet company now occupies the middle ground between classical ballet and modern dance.
a middle-class background/family/suburb
a middle-class attitude
The magazine is very middle-class.
a middle-distance runner (= for example, somebody who runs 800 or 1500 metre races)
a middle-of-the-road newspaper
Their music is very middle-of-the-road.
Buy direct from the manufacturer and cut out the middleman.
a middleweight champion
a golfer of middling talent
He plays (in) midfield.
The team's midfield looks strong.
a midfield player
It is not difficult to take up a new career in midlife.
midlife stresses
They had to leave at midnight.
on the stroke of midnight /shortly after midnight
She heard the clock strike midnight.
We have to catch the midnight train.
a bare midriff
Midshipman Paul Brooks
Such beauty was unexpected in the midst of the city.
We anchored in midstream.
a midsummer evening
midterm elections
a midterm solution
midterm losses
a midterm examination/break
a house in midtown
midtown Manhattan
The goal was scored midway through the first half.
to reach the midway point
to play a match in midweek
By midweek he was too tired to go out.
a midweek defeat for the team
It's cheaper to travel midweek.
midwinter weather
He said he might come tomorrow.
He might get there in time, but I can't be sure.
I know Vicky doesn't like the job, but I mightn't find it too bad.
The pills might have helped him, if only he'd taken them regularly.
He might say that now (= it is true that he does), but he can soon change his mind.
You might try calling the help desk.
I thought we might go to the zoo on Saturday.
Might I use your phone?
If I might just say something…
How might the plans be improved upon?
And who might she be?
I think you might at least offer to help!
Honestly, you might have told me!
I might have guessed it was you!
'And where is the money coming from?' 'You might well ask!'
America's military might
I pushed the rock with all my might.
Their foreign policy is based on the principle that 'might is right'.
a mighty warrior
He struck him with a mighty blow across his shoulder.
the mighty Mississippi River
mighty difficult
driving mighty fast
mightily impressed/relieved
We have struggled mightily to win back lost trade.
severe migraine
I'm getting a migraine.
These industries relied on migrant workers from poorer rural areas.
Migrant birds bring new viruses when they fly into the country.
Swallows migrate south in winter.
Thousands were forced to migrate from rural to urban areas in search of work.
The infected cells then migrate to other areas of the body.
seasonal migration
mass migrations
migratory flights/birds
a mild form of the disease
a mild punishment/criticism
It's safe to take a mild sedative.
Use a soap that is mild on the skin.
the mildest winter since records began
a mild climate
mild irritation/amusement/disapproval
She looked at him in mild surprise.
a mild woman, who never shouted
a mild curry
mild cheese
the mildness of a sunny spring day
her mildness of manner
Two pints of mild, please.
mildly surprised/irritated/interested
'I didn't mean to upset you,' he said mildly.
The result was unfortunate, to put it mildly (= it was extremely unfortunate).
a 20-mile drive to work
an area of four square miles
a mile-long procession
The nearest bank is about half a mile down the road.
We did about 30 miles a day on our cycling trip.
The car must have been doing at least 100 miles an hour.
(BrE) My car does 35 miles to the gallon.
(NAmE) My car gets 35 miles to the gallon.
miles and miles of desert
There isn't a house for miles around here.
I'm not walking—it's miles away.
I'm feeling miles better today, thanks.
I'm miles behind with my work.
She's taller than you by a mile.
He ran the mile in less than four minutes.
a four-minute mile
We broke down miles from anywhere.
He's wearing a wig—you can see it a mile off.
My annual mileage is about 10 000.
a used car with one owner and a low mileage
The car rental included unlimited mileage, but not fuel.
I get a mileage allowance if I use my car for work (= an amount of money paid for each mile I travel).
If you drive carefully you can get better mileage from your car.
I don't think the press can get any more mileage out of that story.
the second millennium AD
How did you celebrate the millennium?
a population of half a million
tens of millions of dollars
It must be worth a million (= pounds, dollars, etc.).
Four million (people) were affected.
Two million (pounds) was withdrawn from the account.
I still have a million things to do.
There were millions of people there.
He made his millions (= all his money) on currency deals.
He's a man in a million.
militant groups/leaders
a growing militancy amongst the unemployed
Student militants were fighting with the police.
military training/intelligence
a military coup
military uniform
We may have to take military action.
a militarily superior country
We may have to intervene militarily in the area.
The military was/were called in to deal with the riot.
a militarized zone
a militarized police force
Militarists ran the country.
militaristic government
to be called up for military service
She has to do her military service.
He's completed 30 years of active military service.
The supervisor's presence militated against a relaxed atmosphere.
a pint/litre of milk
a bottle/carton of milk
fresh/dried/powdered milk
Do you take milk in your tea?
milk products (= butter, cheese, etc.)
She's milked a small fortune from the company over the years.
She's milked the company of a small fortune.
I know he's had a hard time lately, but he's certainly milking it for all it's worth (= using it as an excuse to do things that people would normally object to).
a hot milky drink
milky tea/coffee
milky (= not clear) blue eyes
milky (= white) skin
milking machines/sheds
a banana milkshake
a cotton/cloth/steel/paper mill
mill owners/workers
a pepper mill
Fans were milling around outside the hotel.
milligram
I had to fight my way through the milling crowd.
an oil millionaire
She's a millionaire several times over.
a millionaire businessman
a/one millionth of a second
(figurative) I hesitated a millisecond too long.
The sea was as calm as a millpond.
He was tall, dark and handsome, like a Mills and Boon hero.
The performance consisted of dance, music and mime.
a mime artist
She performed a brief mime.
Each player has to mime the title of a movie, play or book.
He mimed climbing a mountain.
The band was miming to a backing tape.
She's always mimicking the teachers.
He mimicked her southern accent.
The robot was programmed to mimic a series of human movements.
a talent for mimicry
Cook for 8–10 min. until tender.
min. charge £4.50
minatory words
miniature roses
a rare breed of miniature horses
It looks like a miniature version of James Bond's car.
brandy miniatures (= very small bottles)
minced beef
He minced over to serve us.
a pound of mince
short mincing steps
Watching your baby being born is a mind-blowing experience.
a problem of mind-boggling complexity
mind-numbing conversation
The lecture was mind-numbingly tedious.
a fair-minded employer
high-minded principles
I appeal to all like-minded people to support me.
I'm not very politically minded.
a reform-minded government
She was minded to accept their offer.
a star surrounded by her minders
mindful of our responsibilities
Mindful of the danger of tropical storms, I decided not to go out.
mindless violence
mindless vandals
a mindless and repetitive task
We explored the whole town, mindless of the cold and rain.
a conservative mindset
the mindset of the computer generation
That's mine.
He's a friend of mine (= one of my friends).
She wanted one like mine (= like I have).
Let's go back to mine after the show.
a copper/diamond mine
The area has been mined for slate for centuries.
They were mining for gold.
The coastal route had been mined.
The UN convoy was mined on its way to the border.
a legal minefield
Tax can be a minefield for the unwary.
mineral deposits/extraction
the recommended intake of vitamins and minerals
Soft drinks and minerals sold here.
A glass of mineral water, please.
Her tears mingled with the blood on her face.
The flowers mingle together to form a blaze of colour.
The princess was not recognized and mingled freely with the crowds.
If you'll excuse me, I must go and mingle (= talk to other guests).
mini-break (= a short holiday/vacation)
minigolf
a miniaturized listening device
minibeasts such as worms, snails, centipedes and spiders
a minimum charge/price
the minimum age for retirement
The work was done with the minimum amount of effort.
You'll need £200 minimum for your holiday expenses.
Costs should be kept to a minimum.
The class needs a minimum of six students to continue.
As an absolute minimum, you should spend two hours in the evening studying.
Temperatures will fall to a minimum of 10 degrees.
He passed the exams with the minimum of effort.
The work was carried out at minimal cost.
There's only a minimal amount of risk involved.
The damage to the car was minimal.
minimally invasive surgery
The episode was reported minimally in the press.
Good hygiene helps to minimize the risk of infection.
He always tried to minimize his own faults, while exaggerating those of others.
Minimize any windows you have open.
coal/diamond/gold/tin mining
a mining company/community/engineer
the Minister of Education
a meeting of EU Foreign Ministers
senior ministers in the Cabinet
cabinet ministers
a Methodist minister
decisions taken at ministerial level
to hold ministerial office (= to have the job of a government minister)
She could not see herself in the role of ministering angel.
the Ministry of Defence
a ministry spokesperson
a mink farm
a mink jacket
a minor road
to undergo minor surgery
youths imprisoned for minor offences
There may be some minor changes to the schedule.
Women played a relatively minor role in the organization.
the key of C minor
It is an offence to serve alcohol to minors.
a minor-league team
a minor-league business
Only a small minority of students is/are interested in politics these days.
minority shareholders in the bank
the rights of ethnic/racial minorities
minority languages
a large German-speaking minority in the east of the country
(NAmE) The school is 95 per cent minority (= 95 per cent of children are not white Americans but from different groups).
(NAmE) minority neighborhoods (= where no or few white people live)
York Minster
mint-flavoured toothpaste
I decorated the fruit salad with a sprig of mint.
roast lamb with mint sauce
the Royal Mint (= the one where British coins and notes are made)
to make/cost a mint
a newly minted expression
a minty flavour/smell
It's four minutes to six.
I'll be back in a few minutes.
Boil the rice for 20 minutes.
a ten-minute bus ride
I enjoyed every minute of the party.
It only takes a minute to make a salad.
Hang on a minute —I'll just get my coat.
I just have to finish this—I won't be a minute.
Could I see you for a minute?
I'll be with you in a minute, Jo.
Typical English weather—one minute it's raining and the next minute the sun is shining.
At that very minute, Tom walked in.
37 degrees 30 minutes (37° 30′)
We read through the minutes of the last meeting.
Who is going to take the minutes (= write them)?
I want to see him the minute he arrives.
I don't think for a minute that she'll accept but you can ask her.
Come down this minute!
I don't know what I'm going to do yet—I've just this minute found out.
The train arrived at 9.05 to the minute.
Her styles are always up to the minute.
The traffic reports are up to the minute.
Can you wait a second while I make a call?
Wait a minute—this isn't the right key.
I'd like that last remark to be minuted.
minute amounts of chemicals in the water
The kitchen on the boat is minute.
a minute examination/inspection
She remembered everything in minute detail/in the minutest detail(s).
The agreement has been examined minutely.
Seven minus three is four (7 − 3 = 4).
the former Soviet Union, minus the Baltic republics and Georgia
It was minus ten.
The temperature dropped to minus 28 degrees centigrade (−28°C).
We're going to be minus a car for a while.
The margin of error was plus or minus three percentage points.
Let's consider the pluses and minuses of changing the system.
a minus figure/number
What are the car's minus points (= the disadvantages)?
On the minus side, rented property is expensive and difficult to find.
I got (a) B minus (B−) in the test.
the minutiae of the contract
an economic miracle
It's a miracle (that) nobody was killed in the crash.
It would take a miracle to make this business profitable.
a miracle cure/drug
The car is a miracle of engineering.
Her exercise programme has worked miracles for her.
miraculous powers of healing
She's made a miraculous recovery.
They miraculously survived the plane crash.
His idea of love was a mirage.
The police read him his Miranda rights.
The wheels sank deeper into the mire.
(figurative) My name had been dragged through the mire (= my reputation was ruined).
(figurative) The government was sinking deeper and deeper into the mire (= getting further into a difficult situation).
The country was mired in recession.
Designs are available in a myriad of colours.
the myriad problems of modern life
He looked at himself in the mirror.
a rear-view mirror (= in a car, so that the driver can see what is behind)
(BrE) a wing mirror (= on the side of a car)
(NAmE) a side-view mirror
The face is the mirror of the soul.
The music of the time mirrored the feeling of optimism in the country.
She saw herself mirrored in the window.
mirrored doors/sunglasses
The performance produced much mirth among the audience.
a mirthless laugh/smile
misbehaviour
misinterpret
If the policy was mis-sold, the insurance company must be responsible.
The bank had mis-sold them a £200 000 loan.
the mis-selling of financial products
mis-selling complaints
a verdict of death by misadventure
a misaligned vertebra
The tests revealed a slight misalignment of the eyes.
I was under the misapprehension that the course was for complete beginners.
Any child caught misbehaving was made to stand at the front of the class.
I see the dog has been misbehaving itself again.
They had seriously miscalculated the effect of inflation.
He had miscalculated how long the trip would take.
She miscalculated the level of opposition to her proposals.
to make a miscalculation
to have a miscarriage
The pregnancy ended in miscarriage at 11 weeks.
The shock caused her to miscarry.
a sale of miscellaneous household items
She gave me some money to cover any miscellaneous expenses.
a mischievous boy
a mischievous grin/smile/look
mischievous lies/gossip
Those children are always getting into mischief.
I try to keep out of mischief.
It's very quiet upstairs; they must be up to some mischief!
Her eyes were full of mischief.
The incident caused a great deal of political mischief.
a misconceived education policy
their misconceived expectations of country life
frequently held misconceptions about the disease
a popular misconception (= one that a lot of people have)
Let me deal with some common misconceptions.
views based on misconception and prejudice
a doctor accused of gross misconduct (= very serious misconduct )
professional misconduct
misconduct of the company's financial affairs
It is easy to misconstrue confidence as arrogance.
The votes had been miscounted.
youthful misdemeanours
Her depression was misdiagnosed as stress.
Their efforts over the past years have been largely misdirected.
Venice provided the mise en scène for the conference.
We were cold, wet and thoroughly miserable.
Don't look so miserable!
She knows how to make life miserable for her employees.
miserable housing conditions
I spent a miserable weekend alone at home.
What a miserable day!(= cold and wet)
The play was a miserable failure.
He was a miserable old devil.
How can anyone live on such a miserable wage?
They wandered around miserably.
a miserably cold day
He failed miserably as an actor.
Fame brought her nothing but misery.
The vast majority of the population lives in utter misery.
the miseries of unemployment
Don't be such an old misery!
Put me out of my misery—did I pass or didn't I?
The missing letter had been misfiled.
a social misfit
He has known great misfortune in his life.
We had the misfortune to run into a violent storm.
She bore her misfortunes bravely.
I had grave misgivings about making the trip.
I read the letter with a sense of misgiving.
She only did it in a misguided attempt to help.
The entire campaign had been badly mishandled.
The equipment could be dangerous if mishandled.
the government's mishandling of the economy
a slight mishap
a series of mishaps
I managed to get home without (further) mishap.
You may have misheard her—I'm sure she didn't mean that.
I thought he said he was coming today, but I must have misheard.
nuclear missiles
a missile base/site
They were deliberately misinformed about their rights.
a misinformed belief (= based on wrong information)
a campaign of misinformation
His comments were misinterpreted as a criticism of the project.
A number of these statements could be open to misinterpretation (= could be understood wrongly).
She now realizes that she misjudged him.
He misjudged the distance and his ball landed in the lake.
I seem to have mislaid my keys.
He deliberately misled us about the nature of their relationship.
misleading information/advertisements
These bats are sometimes misleadingly referred to as 'flying foxes'.
accusations of corruption and financial mismanagement
a mismatch between people's real needs and the available facilities
They made a mismatched couple.
'Villa' was something of a misnomer —the place was no more than an old farmhouse.
misogynistic attitudes
misplaced confidence/optimism/fear
misplaced loyalty
The senator claims to have been misquoted in the article.
I'm afraid I completely misread the situation.
His confidence was misread as arrogance.
I misread the 1 as a 7.
People often misremember their vacations as more idyllic than they actually were.
The newspapers misreported the facts of the case.
He felt that the book misrepresented his opinions.
In the article she was misrepresented as an uncaring mother.
The report misrepresented what the group believes.
a deliberate misrepresentation of the facts
The regime finally collapsed after 25 years of misrule.
How many goals has he missed this season?
The bullet missed her by about six inches.
She threw a plate at him and only narrowly missed.
She narrowly missed hitting him.
The hotel is the only white building on the road— you can't miss it.
Don't miss next week's issue!
I missed her name.
Your mother will know who's moved in—she doesn't miss much.
He completely missed the joke.
You're missing the point (= failing to understand the main part) of what I'm saying.
She hasn't missed a game all year.
You missed a good party last night (= because you did not go).
'Are you coming to the school play?' ' I wouldn't miss it for the world.'
You can't afford to miss meals (= not eat meals) when you're in training.
to miss a turn (= to not play when it is your turn in a game)
The sale prices were too good to miss.
It was an opportunity not to be missed.
If I don't leave now I'll miss my plane.
Sorry I'm late—have I missed anything?
'Is Ann there?' 'You've just missed her (= she has just left).'
She will be greatly missed when she leaves.
What did you miss most when you were in France?
I don't miss getting up at six every morning!
When did you first miss the necklace?
We seem to be missing some students this morning.
If you go now you should miss the crowds.
He fell and just missed knocking the whole display over.
I'll just read through the form again to make sure I haven't missed anything out.
Of course I'm coming—I don't want to miss out on all the fun!
That's all, thank you, Miss Lipman.
Miss Brighton
the Miss World contest
Will that be all, Miss?
Good morning, Miss!
He scored two goals and had another two near misses.
misshapen feet
Don't you speak to me like that, missy!
I never found the missing piece.
My gloves have been missing for ages.
Two files have gone missing.
They still hoped to find their missing son.
(especially BrE) Our cat's gone missing again.
The book has two pages missing/missing pages.
He didn't notice there was anything missing from his room until later on.
He was reported missing, presumed dead.
Many soldiers were listed as missing in action.
Fill in the missing words in this text.
There were several candidates missing from the list.
a trade mission to China
a fact-finding mission
a mercy mission to aid homeless refugees
the head of the British mission in Berlin
a Catholic mission in Africa
Gandhi's attitude to mission and conversion
Her mission in life was to work with the homeless.
The squadron flew on a reconnaissance mission.
a US space mission
mission control (= the people on earth who control and communicate with the people on the mission )
It's a mission to get there.
We had to mission round all the bars until we found him.
mission-critical employees
Baptist missionaries
missionary work
(figurative) She spoke about her new project with missionary zeal (= with great enthusiasm).
He was confused and may have misspoken to reporters.
Let me rephrase, I think I misspoke myself.
a misspoken word
He joked that being good at cards was the sign of a misspent youth (= having wasted his time when he was young).
You are completely mistaken about Jane.
Unless I'm very much mistaken, that's Paul's wife over there.
mistaken views/ideas
I told her my secret in the mistaken belief that I could trust her.
He mistakenly believed that his family would stand by him.
I completely misunderstood her intentions.
Don't misunderstand me—I am grateful for all you've done.
I thought he was her husband—I must have misunderstood.
How's the missus (= your wife)?
My missus doesn't like computer games.
my current missus
Is this your bag, missus?
alcohol/drug misuse
the misuse of power/authority
individuals who misuse power for their own ends
The hills were shrouded in mist.
Early morning mist patches will soon clear.
The origins of the story are lost in the mists of time (= forgotten because it happened such a long time ago).
(figurative) She gazed at the scene through a mist of tears.
The windows were misted up with condensation.
As he came in from the cold, his glasses misted up.
Her eyes misted over as she listened to the speech.
Tears misted his eyes.
It's easy to make a mistake.
This letter is addressed to someone else—there must be some mistake.
It would be a mistake to ignore his opinion.
Don't worry, we all make mistakes.
You must try to learn from your mistakes.
Leaving school so young was the biggest mistake of my life.
I made the mistake of giving him my address.
It was a big mistake on my part to have trusted her.
a great/serious/terrible mistake
It's a common mistake (= one that a lot of people make).
The waiter made a mistake (in) adding up the bill.
Her essay is full of spelling mistakes.
I admit that I mistook his intentions.
There was no mistaking (= it was impossible to mistake) the bitterness in her voice.
I mistook her offer as a threat.
Sorry—I mistook what you said.
I think you must be mistaking me for someone else.
He was shot in what seems to have been a case of mistaken identity.
Please, mister, can we have our ball back?
He died in mysterious circumstances.
A mysterious illness is affecting all the animals.
A mysterious young woman is living next door.
He was being very mysterious about where he was going.
My watch had mysteriously disappeared.
Mysteriously, the streets were deserted.
She was silent, smiling mysteriously.
It is one of the great unsolved mysteries of this century.
Their motives remain a mystery.
It's a complete mystery to me why they chose him.
He's a bit of a mystery.
There was a mystery guest on the programme.
The band was financed by a mystery backer.
(BrE) a mystery tour (= when you do not know where you are going)
Mystery surrounds her disappearance.
His past is shrouded in mystery (= not much is known about it).
The dark glasses give her an air of mystery.
I enjoy murder mysteries.
(figurative) the teacher who initiated me into the mysteries of mathematics
the mystery of creation
a misty morning
misty memories
(literary) His eyes grew misty (= full of tears) as he talked.
The horse completely mistimed the jump and threw its rider.
The failure of the talks was mainly due to insensitivity and mistiming.
the tradition of kissing under the mistletoe
the Biology mistress
the mistress of the house
She wants to be mistress of her own affairs (= to organize her own life).
a climate of mistrust and fear
She has a deep mistrust of strangers.
Some people are very mistrustful of computers.
There must be some misunderstanding—I thought I ordered the smaller model.
There is still a fundamental misunderstanding about the real purpose of this work.
All contracts are translated to avoid any misunderstanding between the companies.
We had a little misunderstanding over the bill.
a much misunderstood illness
She felt very alone and misunderstood.
house dust mites
Poor little mite!
The place looked a mite (= a little) expensive.
action to mitigate poverty
Soil erosion was mitigated by the planting of trees.
mitochondrial DNA
I'd love to get my mitts on one of those.
Oil does not mix with water.
Mix all the ingredients together in a bowl.
If you mix blue and yellow, you get green.
I don't like to mix business with pleasure (= combine social events with doing business).
With this range of paints, you can mix your own colours.
Why don't you mix a cocktail for our guests?
Why don't you mix our guests a cocktail?
Children and fireworks don't mix.
They don't mix much with the neighbours.
Mix the remaining cream in with the sauce.
Mix the fruit into the rest of the mixture.
Add the milk and mix to a smooth dough.
Someone has mixed up all the application forms.
I think you must be mixing me up with someone else.
a school with a good social mix of children
The town offers a fascinating mix of old and new.
a pair of wool mix socks (= made of wool and other materials)
a cake mix
cement mix
There has been a mix-up over the dates.
The weather has been very mixed recently.
I still have mixed feelings about going to Brazil (= I am not sure what to think).
The play was given a mixed reception by the critics (= some liked it, some did not).
British athletes had mixed fortunes in yesterday's competition.
a mixed community
people of mixed race
a mixed marriage (= between two people of different races or religions)
a mixed salad
a mixed school
I'd rather not talk about it in mixed company.
a mixed grill of bacon, sausages, tomatoes and mushrooms
The portrait is mixed media on wood.
a mixed-up kid/teenager
a mixed-ability class
mixed-ability teaching
a mixed-race child (= with parents of different races)
a food mixer
(BrE) a mixer tap (= one in which hot and cold water can be mixed together before it comes out of the pipe)
low-calorie mixers
The city is a mixture of old and new buildings.
We listened to the news with a mixture of surprise and horror.
cake mixture
Add the eggs to the mixture and beat well.
25ml water
rainfall 6mm
a 35mm camera
Mm, I know what you mean.
Mm, what lovely cake!
Mmm, I'm not so sure that's a good idea.
an MMR jab (= a vaccine given to small children to prevent these three diseases)
an MMS message
He sent me an MMS.
a mnemonic device
See you in a mo!
The injured man was lying on the ground, moaning.
to moan in/with pain
'I might never see you again,' she moaned.
They're always moaning and groaning about how much they have to do.
Bella moaned that her feet were cold.
a low moan of despair/anguish
We had a good moan about work.
His letters are full of the usual moans and groans.
a moated manor house
an angry/unruly mob
The mob was/were preparing to storm the building.
an excited mob of fans
mob rule (= a situation in which a mob has control, rather than people in authority)
All the usual mob were there.
a mob of cattle
mobile equipment
a mobile shop/library (= one inside a vehicle)
a kitchen especially designed for the elderly or people who are less mobile
You really need to be mobile (= have a car) if you live in the country.
a highly mobile workforce (= people who can move easily from place to place)
Call me on my mobile.
What's your mobile number?
the mobile networks (= companies that provide mobile phone services)
Please make sure all mobile phones are switched off during the performance.
The unions mobilized thousands of workers in a protest against the cuts.
They were unable to mobilize the resources they needed.
The troops were ordered to mobilize.
social/geographical/career mobility
An electric wheelchair has given her greater mobility.
He's always mocking my French accent.
The other children mocked her, laughing behind their hands.
You can mock, but at least I'm willing to have a try!
The new exam mocked the needs of the majority of children.
mock horror/surprise
a mock election
a mock interview/examination (= used to practise for the real one)
The mocks are in November.
What did you get in the mock?
She couldn't stand any more of their mockery.
It was a mockery of a trial.
We were going to have a barbecue but the rain put the mockers on that idea.
a mocking smile
Her voice was faintly mocking.
She speaks in this ridiculous mockney accent.
They are researching a different modality of treatment for the disease.
the visual and auditory modalities
There are stiff penalties for illegal modding.
a specially modded system
a mode of communication
a mode of behaviour
environment-friendly modes of transport
Switch the camera into the automatic mode.
to be in holiday mode
a pop video made by a director who really understands the mode
major/minor mode
a working model (= one in which the parts move) of a fire engine
a model aeroplane
The architect had produced a scale model of the proposed shopping complex.
The latest models will be on display at the motor show.
a mathematical model for determining the safe level of pesticides in food
The nation's constitution provided a model that other countries followed.
It was a model of clarity.
a model student
a model farm (= one that has been specially designed to work well)
a fashion model
a male model
The wedding gown is being modelled for us by the designer's daughter.
The program can model a typical home page for you.
a statue modelled in bronze
As a politician, he modelled himself on Churchill.
The country's parliament is modelled on the British system.
a career in modelling
a modelling agency
clay modelling
mathematical/statistical/computer modelling
students of moderate ability
Even moderate amounts of the drug can be fatal.
The team enjoyed only moderate success last season.
Cook over a moderate heat.
moderate views/policies
a moderate socialist
a moderate drinker
moderate wage demands
By evening the wind had moderated slightly.
We agreed to moderate our original demands.
The television debate was moderated by a law professor.
a moderated newsgroup
a moderately successful career
She only did moderately well in the exam.
Cook in a moderately hot oven.
He only drinks (alcohol) moderately.
There was a call for moderation on the part of the trade unions.
Alcohol should only ever be taken in moderation (= in small quantities).
moderators of online discussion groups
the modern industrial world
Modern European history
modern Greek
Stress is a major problem of modern life.
modern art/architecture/drama/jazz
a modern computer system
modern methods of farming
the most modern, well-equipped hospital in London
She has very modern ideas about educating her children.
the department of modern languages
a degree in modern languages
modern-day America
It has been called modern-day slavery.
The company is investing $9 million to modernize its factories.
Unfortunately we lack the resources to modernize.
modernist art
modest improvements/reforms
He charged a relatively modest fee.
a modest little house
The research was carried out on a modest scale.
She's very modest about her success.
You're too modest!
a modest dress
He accepted the award with characteristic modesty.
I hate false (= pretended) modesty.
They tried to disguise the modesty of their achievements.
They should win, given a modicum of luck.
Considerable modification of the existing system is needed.
It might be necessary to make a few slight modifications to the design.
The software we use has been modified for us.
Patients are taught how to modify their diet.
to modify your behaviour/language/views
In 'walk slowly', the adverb 'slowly' modifies the verb 'walk'.
a modular course
drugs that effectively modulate the disease process
The course consists of ten core modules and five optional modules.
the lunar module
Could you wait a moment, please?
One moment, please (= Please wait a short time).
He thought for a moment before replying.
I'll be back in a moment.
We arrived not a moment too soon (= almost too late).
Moments later (= a very short time later), I heard a terrible crash.
We're busy at the moment (= now).
I agreed in a moment of weakness.
At that very moment, the phone rang.
From that moment on, she never felt really well again.
I'm waiting for the right moment to tell him the bad news.
Have I caught you at a bad moment?
I want to see him the moment he arrives.
I don't think for a moment that she'll accept but you can ask her.
matters of great moment
She's the fashion designer of the moment.
I phoned him up on the spur of the moment.
a spur-of-the-moment decision
to borrow/save/spend/earn money
How much money is there in my account?
The money is much better in my new job.
If the item is not satisfactory, you will get your money back.
We'll need to raise more money (= collect or borrow it) next year.
Can you lend me some money until tomorrow?
Be careful with that—it cost a lot of money.
He lost all his money.
The family made their money in the 18th century.
a statement of all monies paid into your account
She travels around the world as if money is no object.
His prediction was right on the money.
We would welcome interest from anyone prepared to put money into the club.
He'll be there tonight. I'd put money on it.
It is inappropriate simply to throw money at these problems.
I paid good money for this jacket, and now look at it—it's ruined!
a movie mogul
a mohair sweater
'Did you eat all the biscuits?' 'Who? Moi?'
warm moist air
a rich moist cake
Water the plants regularly to keep the soil moist.
Her eyes were moist (= with tears).
He moistened his lips before he spoke.
the skin's natural moisture
a material that is designed to absorb/retain moisture
a moisturizing cream/lotion
a product that soothes and moisturizes
A clay mold is used for casting bronze statues.
Pour the chocolate into a heart-shaped mold.
They broke the mold when they made you (= there is nobody like you).
a hero in the 'Superman' mold
He is cast in a different mold from his predecessor.
She doesn't fit (into) the traditional mold of an academic.
There's mold on the cheese.
molds and fungi
mold growth
First, mold the clay into the desired shape.
The figure had been molded in clay.
The experience had molded and coloured her whole life.
He molded them into a superb team.
The fabric molds to the body.
moldy bread/cheese
Strawberries go moldy very quickly.
A molecule of water consists of two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen.
molecular structure/biology
a child molester
Where's my mom?
Mom and Dad
Are you listening, Mom?
The fight for his release gathers momentum each day.
They began to lose momentum in the second half of the game.
The vehicle gained momentum as the road dipped.
He paused momentarily.
I'll be with you momentarily.
a momentary lapse of concentration
momentary confusion
a momentous decision/event/occasion
plans to abolish the monarchy
There are several constitutional monarchies in Europe.
It's Monday today, isn't it?
She started work last Monday.
Are you busy next Monday?
Monday morning/afternoon/evening
We'll discuss this at Monday's meeting.
Do we still have Monday's paper?
I work Monday to Friday.
I work Mondays to Fridays.
On Monday(s) (= Every Monday) I do yoga.
I always do yoga on a Monday.
He was born on a Monday.
I went to Paris on Thursday, and came back the following Monday.
We'll meet on Monday.
(BrE) 'When did the accident happen?' 'It was the Monday (= the Monday of the week we are talking about).'
(BrE) Come back Monday week (= a week after next Monday).
(informal or NAmE) We'll meet Monday.
a monetarist economic policy
monetary policy/growth
an item of little monetary value
closer European political, monetary and economic union
money-saving offers/tips
the moneyed classes
a moneymaking movie
The details of today's flights are displayed on the monitor.
a PC with a 17-inch colour monitor
a heart monitor
UN monitors declared the referendum fair.
Each student's progress is closely monitored.
Benedictine/Buddhist monks
Come here, you cheeky little monkey!
Look! It's a monkey's wedding!
a mono recording
recorded in mono
monorail
monogamy
monochrome illustrations/images
(figurative) a dull monochrome life
a monochromatic colour scheme
an artist who works in monochrome
a global economic monoculture
a monogamous marriage
Most birds are monogamous.
a monogrammed handkerchief
a monolingual dictionary
a monolithic block
the monolithic structure of the state
He went into a long monologue about life in America.
a dramatic monologue
In the past central government had a monopoly on television broadcasting.
Electricity, gas and water were considered to be natural monopolies.
Managers do not have a monopoly on stress.
A good education should not be the monopoly of the rich.
Men traditionally monopolized jobs in the printing industry.
As usual, she completely monopolized the conversation.
Inflation was so high that the notes were like Monopoly money.
a monosyllabic word
He spoke in a flat monotone.
He spoke in a monotone drawl.
monotone engravings
a monotonous voice/diet/routine
monotonous work
New secretaries came and went with monotonous regularity.
She watches television to relieve the monotony of everyday life.
a monster with three heads
prehistoric monsters
Their dog's an absolute monster!
monster mushrooms
a concrete monstrosity
a monstrous lie/injustice
a monstrous wave
a monstrous figure/creature
monstrously unfair
a monstrously fat man
a photographic montage
the month of August
We're moving house next month.
She earns $1 000 a month.
The rent is £300 per month.
Have you read this month's 'Physics World'?
Prices continue to rise month after month (= over a period of several months).
Her anxiety mounted month by month (= as each month passed).
The baby is three months old.
a three-month-old baby
They lived in Toronto during their first few months of marriage.
several months later
a six-month contract
a month-long strike
He visits Paris once or twice a month.
He had to wait for months for the visas to come through.
It will be months before we get the results.
a monthly meeting/visit/magazine
a monthly salary of £1 000
a monthly season ticket
Summers are hot, with monthly averages above 22°C.
She gets paid monthly.
the fashion monthlies
They'll do the full monty (= take off all their clothes) if you pay them enough.
A monument to him was erected in St Paul's Cathedral.
an ancient monument
These recordings are a monument to his talent as a pianist.
Gibbon's monumental work 'The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire'
a book of monumental significance
We have a monumental task ahead of us.
It seems like an act of monumental folly.
a monumental inscription/tomb
a monumental mason (= a person who makes monuments)
monumentally difficult/stupid
He's happy to mooch around the house all day.
He's always mooching off his friends.
She's in a good mood today (= happy and friendly).
He's always in a bad mood (= unhappy, or angry and impatient).
to be in a foul/filthy mood
Some addicts suffer violent mood swings (= changes of mood) if deprived of the drug.
I'm just not in the mood for a party tonight.
I'm not really in the mood to go out tonight.
He was in no mood for being polite to visitors.
I wonder why he's in such a mood today.
She was in one of her moods (= one of her regular periods of being angry or impatient).
The mood of the meeting was distinctly pessimistic.
The movie captures the mood of the interwar years perfectly.
the indicative/imperative/subjunctive mood
mood-altering substances
Moody people are very difficult to deal with.
Why are you so moody today?
He stared moodily into the fire.
the surface of the moon
a moon landing
There's no moon tonight (= no moon can be seen).
By the light of the moon I could just make out shapes and outlines.
How many moons does Jupiter have?
a moonless night/sky
to go for a walk by moonlight/in the moonlight
a moonlit night/beach
the North York moors
to go for a walk on the moors
moor and rough grassland
We moored off the north coast of the island.
A number of fishing boats were moored to the quay.
the Moorish architecture of Córdoba
The boat slipped its moorings and drifted out to sea.
private moorings
to find a mooring
mooring ropes
walking across open moorland
He argued that the issue had become moot since the board had changed its policy.
a mop and bucket
a mop of curly red hair
She wiped all the surfaces and mopped the floor.
He took out a handkerchief to mop his brow (= to remove the sweat).
Do you want some bread to mop up that sauce?
(figurative) A number of smaller companies were mopped up (= taken over) by the American multinational.
(figurative) New equipment mopped up (= used up) what was left of this year's budget.
There are a few things that need mopping up before I can leave.
Troops combed the area to mop up any remaining resistance.
Moping won't do any good!
Instead of moping around the house all day, you should be out there looking for a job.
a moral issue/dilemma/question
traditional moral values
a decline in moral standards
moral philosophy
a deeply religious man with a highly developed moral sense
The newspapers were full of moral outrage at the weakness of other countries.
moral responsibility/duty
Governments have at least a moral obligation to answer these questions.
The job was to call on all her diplomatic skills and moral courage (= the courage to do what you think is right).
He led a very moral life.
a very moral person
Children are not naturally moral beings.
Young people these days have no morals.
The play was considered an affront to public morals.
(old-fashioned) a woman of loose morals (= with a low standard of sexual behaviour)
And the moral is that crime doesn't pay.
My sister came along just to give me some moral support.
to boost/raise/improve morale
Morale amongst the players is very high at the moment.
Staff are suffering from low morale.
matters of public/private morality
Standards of morality seem to be dropping.
a debate on the morality of abortion
to act morally
morally right/wrong/justified/unacceptable
He felt morally responsible for the accident.
The convention called for a two-year moratorium on commercial whaling.
He had a morbid fascination with blood.
'He might even die.' 'Don't be so morbid.'
They're planning on taking out a morcha at the minister's house.
His mordant wit appealed to students.
more bread/cars
Only two more days to go!
people with more money than sense
I can't stand much more of this.
She earns a lot more than I do.
There is room for no more than three cars.
I hope we'll see more of you (= see you again or more often).
More and more people are using the Internet.
She spends more and more time alone in her room.
She was far more intelligent than her sister.
He read the letter more carefully the second time.
I like her more than her husband.
a course for more advanced students
It had more the appearance of a deliberate crime than of an accident.
Could you repeat that once more (= one more time)?
I had no complaints and no more (= neither) did Tom.
Signing the forms is little more than (= only) a formality.
I'm more than happy (= extremely happy) to take you there in my car.
She was more than a little shaken (= extremely shaken) by the experience.
(formal) I will torment you no more (= no longer).
I was becoming more and more irritated by his behaviour.
The more she thought about it, the more depressed she became.
The less said about the whole thing, the happier I'll be.
You're wrong, and what's more you know it!
The problem is due to discipline, or, more precisely, the lack of discipline, in schools.
I couldn't do the job—I've never been to Spain and, more to the point, I don't speak Spanish.
'Was the bicycle insured?' 'No, more's the pity!'
A talented artist, he was, moreover, a writer of some note.
to apply for/take out/pay off a mortgage
mortgage rates (= of interest)
a mortgage on the house
a mortgage of £60 000
monthly mortgage payments
He had to mortgage his house to pay his legal costs.
a moribund patient/tree
a Mormon church/chapel
They left for Spain early this morning.
See you tomorrow morning.
I prefer coffee in the morning.
She woke every morning at the same time.
Our group meets on Friday mornings.
I walk to work most mornings.
We got the news on the morning of the wedding.
He's been in a meeting all morning.
the morning papers
I didn't get home until two in the morning!
He died in the early hours of Sunday morning.
I only work mornings.
She talks about him morning, noon and night.
The work continues morning, noon and night.
After his election victory, the president held a morning-after news conference.
a morning-after headache
They're a bunch of morons.
You moron—now look what you've done!
a moronic stare
a moronic TV programme
She just sat there looking morose.
The word 'like' contains one morpheme but 'un-like-ly' contains three.
a morphosyntactic rule of adjective agreement
We had to leave on the morrow.
Who knows what the morrow (= the future) will bring?
a tasty morsel of food
He ate it all, down to the last morsel.
We are all mortal.
a mortal blow/wound
to be in mortal danger
(figurative) Her reputation suffered a mortal blow as a result of the scandal.
mortal enemies
They were locked in mortal combat (= a fight that will only end with the death of one of them).
We lived in mortal dread of him discovering our secret.
old stories about gods and mortals
(humorous) Such things are not for mere mortals like ourselves.
(humorous) She can deal with complicated numbers in her head, but we lesser mortals need calculators!
After her mother's death, she became acutely aware of her own mortality.
the infant mortality rate (= the number of babies that die at or just after birth)
Mortality from lung cancer is still increasing.
hospital mortalities (= deaths in hospital)
mortally wounded/ill
mortally afraid/offended
to come under mortar fire/attack
She was mortified to realize he had heard every word she said.
How mortifying to have to apologize to him!
a Roman mosaic
a design in mosaic
mosaic tiles
(figurative) A mosaic of fields, rivers and woods lay below us.
He moseyed on over to the bar.
a mosquito bite
moss-covered walls
Who do you think will get (the) most votes?
She had the most money of all of them.
I spent most time on the first question.
Who ate the most?
The director has the most to lose.
I like most vegetables.
Most classical music sends me to sleep.
As most of you know, I've decided to resign.
Most of the people I had invited turned up.
There are thousands of verbs in English and most (of them) are regular.
the most boring/beautiful part
It was the people with the least money who gave most generously.
This reason is mentioned most frequently.
This is the most frequently mentioned reason.
What did you enjoy (the) most?
It was what she wanted most of all.
It was most kind of you to meet me.
We shall most probably never meet again.
This technique looks easy, but it most certainly is not.
I go to the store most every day.
The sauce is mostly cream.
We're mostly out on Sundays.
I've got to take the car in for its MOT.
to pass/fail the MOT
The original proposal had been mothballed years ago.
I want to buy a present for my mother and father.
the relationship between mother and baby
She's the mother of twins.
a mother of three (= with three children)
an expectant (= pregnant) mother
She was a wonderful mother to both her natural and adopted children.
the mother chimpanzee caring for her young
I got stuck in the mother of all traffic jams.
He was a disturbed child who needed mothering.
Stop mothering me!
(figurative) Her own experiences have provided her with a mother lode of material for her songs.
Jazz is mother's milk to me.
Motherhood suits her.
an example of good/poor mothering
motherly love
She was a kind, motherly woman.
wallpaper with a flower motif
Newton's laws of motion
The swaying motion of the ship was making me feel seasick.
(formal) Do not alight while the train is still in motion (= moving).
Rub the cream in with a circular motion.
At a single motion of his hand, the room fell silent.
to table/put forward a motion
to propose a motion (= to be the main speaker in favour of a motion)
The motion was adopted/carried by six votes to one.
They set the machinery in motion.
(figurative) The wheels of change have been set in motion.
I motioned to the waiter.
He motioned for us to follow him.
She motioned him into her office.
She stood absolutely motionless.
He is motivated entirely by self-interest.
She's very good at motivating her students.
The plan is designed to motivate employees to work more efficiently.
Please motivate your answer to question 5.
a racially motivated attack
a highly motivated student (= one who is very interested and works hard)
What is the motivation behind this sudden change?
Most people said that pay was their main motivation for working.
He's intelligent enough but he lacks motivation.
(SAfrE) All research proposals must be accompanied by a full motivation.
an important motivational factor
Desire for status can be a powerful motivator.
I'm suspicious of his motives.
the profit motive (= the desire to make a profit)
I have an ulterior motive in offering to help you.
an apparently motiveless murder/attack
motive power/force (= for example electricity to operate machinery)
The room was filled with a motley collection of furniture and paintings.
The audience was a motley crew of students and tourists.
He started the motor.
motor vehicles
the motor industry/trade
a motor accident
motor insurance
motor fuel
uncoordinated motor activity
Both motor and sensory functions are affected.
They're planning a motoring holiday to France this year.
Passengers are set down at Molete Motor Park.
Ben drove off on his motorbike.
The President's motorcade glided by.
motorcycle racing
a motorcycle accident
a police motorcyclist
leather-clad motorcyclists
a motoring offence
motorized vehicles
a motorized wheelchair
motorized forces/divisions
busy/congested motorways
Join the motorway at Junction 19.
Leave the motorway at the next exit.
A nine-mile stretch of motorway has been closed.
a motorway service area/service station
The school's motto is: 'Duty, Honour, Country'.
'Live and let live.' That's my motto.
A clay mould is used for casting bronze statues.
Pour the chocolate into a heart-shaped mould.
They broke the mould when they made you (= there is nobody like you).
a hero in the 'Superman' mould
He is cast in a different mould from his predecessor.
She doesn't fit (into) the traditional mould of an academic.
There's mould on the cheese.
moulds and fungi
mould growth
First, mould the clay into the desired shape.
The figure had been moulded in clay.
The experience had moulded and coloured her whole life.
He moulded them into a superb team.
The fabric moulds to the body.
The room smelt of disuse and mouldering books.
mouldy bread/cheese
Strawberries go mouldy very quickly.
a Bronze Age burial mound
The castle was built on top of a natural grassy mound.
a small mound of rice/sand
I've got a mound of paperwork to do.
to mount a protest/a campaign/an exhibition
Pressure is mounting on the government to change the law.
The death toll continues to mount.
She slowly mounted the steps.
He mounted the platform and addressed the crowd.
He mounted his horse and rode away.
The specimens were mounted on slides.
The diamond is mounted in gold.
Meanwhile, my debts were mounting up.
Mt Kilimanjaro
St Michael's Mount
an engine/a gun mount
a chain/range of mountains
to climb a mountain
We spent a week walking in the mountains.
to enjoy the mountain air/scenery
mountain roads/streams/villages
a mountain rescue team
a mountain of work
We made mountains of sandwiches.
the problem of Europe's butter mountain (= the large amount of butter that has to be stored because it is not needed)
to go mountaineering
a mountaineering expedition
a mountainous region/terrain
mountainous waves
Tracks led up the mountainside.
a mountaintop ranch
mounted policemen
a mounted photograph
a ceiling-mounted fan
mounting excitement/concern/tension
There is mounting evidence of serious effects on people's health.
The engine came loose from its mountings.
He was still mourning his brother's death.
They mourn the passing of a simpler way of life.
Today we mourn for all those who died in two world wars.
She mourned for her lost childhood.
mournful eyes
mournful music
I couldn't bear the mournful look on her face.
The dog looked mournfully after its owner.
The government announced a day of national mourning for the victims.
She was still in mourning for her husband.
a field mouse
a house mouse
The stores were overrun with rats and mice.
She crept upstairs, quiet as a mouse.
(figurative) He was a weak little mouse of a man.
Click the left mouse button twice to highlight the program.
Use the mouse to drag the icon to a new position.
Mouse over the link in the original message.
the use of mouseovers in web design
a chocolate/strawberry mousse
salmon/mushroom mousse
She opened her mouth to say something.
His mouth twisted into a wry smile.
Their mouths fell open (= they were surprised).
Don't talk with your mouth full (= when eating).
The creature was foaming at the mouth.
Now there would be another mouth to feed.
The world will not be able to support all these extra hungry mouths.
the mouth of a cave/pit
He has a foul mouth on him!
Watch your mouth!(= stop saying things that are rude and/or offensive)
a wide-mouthed old woman
a narrow-mouthed cave
a rather crude-mouthed individual
He mouthed a few obscenities at us and then moved off.
They're just mouthing empty slogans.
a mouth-watering display of cakes
(figurative) mouth-watering travel brochures
The drink has a creamy mouthfeel.
She took a mouthful of water.
The newspaper has become the official mouthpiece of the opposition party.
The Press Secretary serves as the President's mouthpiece.
movable partitions
a doll with a movable head
Don't move—stay perfectly still.
The bus was already moving when I jumped onto it.
He could hear someone moving around in the room above.
Phil moved towards the window.
You can hardly move in this pub on Saturdays (= because it is so crowded).
You can't move for books in her room.
I can't move my fingers.
We moved our chairs a little nearer.
The government has not moved on this issue.
Let's move the meeting to Wednesday.
Time is moving on.
Share prices moved ahead today.
Things are not moving as fast as we hoped.
The police moved quickly to dispel the rumours.
We don't like it here so we've decided to move.
The company's moving to Scotland.
She's been all on her own since her daughter moved away.
(BrE) We moved house last week.
I'm being moved to the New York office.
It's your turn to move.
She moved her queen.
We were deeply moved by her plight.
Grown men were moved to tears at the horrific scenes.
She felt moved to address the crowd.
He works when the spirit moves him (= when he wants to).
The Opposition moved an amendment to the Bill.
I move that a vote be taken on this.
The bus driver asked them to move along.
Our new neighbours moved in yesterday.
She only moves in the best circles.
The police moved in on the terrorists.
I've been in this job long enough—it's time I moved on.
Can we move on to the next item on the agenda?
There's room for another one if you move up a bit.
This latest move by the government has aroused fierce opposition.
The management have made no move to settle the strike.
Getting a job in marketing was a good career move.
Don't make a move!
Every move was painful.
She felt he was watching her every move.
There has been a move away from nuclear energy.
What's the date of your move?
Their move from Italy to the US has not been a success.
Her new job is just a sideways move.
The game was over in only six moves.
It's your move.
to make a horror movie
Have you seen the latest Miyazaki movie?
a famous movie director/star
Let's go to the movies.
I've always wanted to work in the movies.
a deeply moving experience
the moving parts of a machine
fast-moving water
a moving target
She described her experiences in Africa very movingly.
hand/eye movements
She observed the gentle movement of his chest as he breathed.
Loose clothing gives you greater freedom of movement.
There was a sudden movement in the undergrowth.
enemy troop movements
laws to allow free movement of goods and services
the women's/peace movement
the Romantic movement (= for example in literature)
a mass movement for change
The police are keeping a close watch on the suspect's movements.
a movement towards greater sexual equality
It needs cooperation from all the countries to get any movement in arms control.
There has been no movement in oil prices.
the slow movement of the First Concerto
a great mover on the dance floor
an earth mover
professional furniture movers
The documentary opens tomorrow in movie theaters nationwide.
I mow the lawn every week in summer.
the smell of new-mown hay
a lawnmower
a motor/rotary mower
Michael Phillips MP
Write to your local MP to protest.
Conservative/Labour MPs
the MP for Oxford East
an MPEG file
It does 40 mpg.
(NAmE) It gets 40 mpg.
a 60 mph speed limit
Mr Brown
Mr John Brown
Mr and Mrs Brown
Thank you, Mr Chairman.
Mr. President
I'm not getting married in a hurry—I'm waiting for Mr Right to come along.
The scandal destroyed his image as Mr. Clean.
an MRI scan
rising rates of MRSA infections in hospitals
Ms Murphy
Ms Jean Murphy
(BrE) to be/have/do an MSc
(BrE) J Stevens MSc
The line is beginning to blur between influential blogs and MSM.
Alex Neil MSP
Write to your local MSP to protest.
Labour MSPs
Mt Kenya
I don't have much money with me.
'Got any money?' ' Not much.'
How much water do you need?
How much is it (= What does it cost)?
Take as much time as you like.
There was so much traffic that we were an hour late.
I've got far too much to do.
(formal) I lay awake for much of the night.
(formal) There was much discussion about the reasons for the failure.
I won, but there wasn't much in it (= our scores were nearly the same).
He's not much of a tennis player.
I'll say this much for him—he never leaves a piece of work unfinished.
Thank you very much for the flowers.
I would very much like to see you again.
He isn't in the office much (= often).
You worry too much.
My new job is much the same as the old one.
Much to her surprise he came back the next day.
She's much better today.
The other one was much too expensive.
Nikolai's English was much the worst.
We are very much aware of the lack of food supplies.
I'm not much good at tennis.
He was much loved by all who knew him.
an appeal to raise much-needed cash
Much as I would like to stay, I really must go home.
The two candidates are much of a muchness—it's hard to choose between them.
to spread muck on the fields
Can you wipe the muck off the windows?
I can't eat this muck!
Who's mucking around with my radio?
They've really mucked us about over our car insurance.
If we all muck in, we could have the job finished by the end of the week.
We didn't have much money, but everyone just mucked in together.
He completely mucked up his English exam.
I don't want you mucking up my nice clean floor.
It's my old mucker John!
mucky hands
mucky books/jokes
mucous glands
Your boots are covered in mud.
mud bricks/huts (= made of dried mud)
Heavy rain turned the campsite into a mudbath.
a muddy field/track
muddy boots/knees
muddy water
a muddy pond
muddy green/brown
Don't do that—you're muddling my papers.
Their letters were all muddled up together in a drawer.
Slow down a little—you're muddling me.
I muddled the dates and arrived a week early.
He got all muddled up about what went where.
They look so alike, I always get them muddled up.
We can't just keep muddling along like this.
We'll muddle through somehow.
Can you start from the beginning again—I'm in a muddle.
There was a muddle over the theatre tickets.
There followed a long period of confusion and muddle.
My papers are all in a muddle.
muddle-headed thinkers
He gets muddled when the teacher starts shouting.
muddled thinking
He was found guilty of murder.
She has been charged with the attempted murder of her husband.
to commit (a) murder
a murder case/investigation/trial
The rebels were responsible for the mass murder of 400 civilians.
What was the murder weapon?
The play is a murder mystery.
It's murder trying to get to the airport at this time of day.
It was murder (= very busy and unpleasant) in the office today.
He denies murdering his wife's lover.
The murdered woman was well known in the area.
Critics accused him of murdering the English language (= writing or speaking it very badly).
a convicted murderer
a mass murderer (= who has killed a lot of people)
He muffed his lines (= he forgot them or said them wrongly).
It was a really simple shot, and I muffed it.
a blueberry muffin
He tried to muffle the alarm clock by putting it under his pillow.
She muffled the child up in a blanket.
muffled voices from the next room
officers in mufti
a coffee mug
a beer mug (= a large glass with a handle)
a mug of coffee
I never want to see his ugly mug again.
They made me look a complete mug.
He's no mug.
She had been mugged in the street in broad daylight.
to mug for the cameras
a muggy August day
Mugging is on the increase.
There have been several muggings here recently.
And muggins here had to clean up all the mess.
He's as stubborn as a mule.
I need some time to mull it over before making a decision.
to be/get mullered
mullioned windows
multicoloured
a multimillionaire
a multimillion-dollar business
a multi-ethnic society
a multi-user software licence
multi-word units such as 'fall in love'
Click here to see some of our multibuy offers.
a multicoloured dress
We live in a multicultural society.
a multicultural approach to education
multidimensional space
a multidisciplinary course
a complex and multifaceted problem
the multifarious life forms in the coral reef
a vast and multifarious organization
a multifunctional device
multigrain bread
multilateral negotiations
multilingual translators/communities/societies
a multilingual classroom
a multilingual phrase book
multimedia systems/products
the multimedia industry (= producing CD-ROMs etc.)
a multimedia approach to learning
the use of multimedia in museums
multinational companies/corporations
A multinational force is being sent to the trouble spot.
The game will support up to four players in multiplayer mode.
multiple copies of documents
a multiple entry visa
to suffer multiple injuries (= in many different places in the body)
a multiple birth (= several babies born to a mother at one time)
a multiple pile-up (= a crash involving many vehicles)
a house in multiple ownership/occupancy (= owned/occupied by several different people or families)
14, 21 and 28 are all multiples of 7.
18 is the lowest common multiple of 6 and 9.
Traveller's cheques are available in multiples of €10 (= to the value of €10, €20, €30, etc.).
the multiplication sign (×)
Multiplication of cells leads to rapid growth of the organism.
This situation can be influenced by a multiplicity of different factors.
The children are already learning to multiply and divide.
2 multiplied by 4 is/equals/makes 8 (= 2×4 = 8)
Multiply 2 and 6 together and you get 12.
Our problems have multiplied since last year.
Cigarette smoking multiplies the risk of cancer.
Rabbits multiply rapidly.
It is possible to multiply these bacteria in the laboratory.
a multipurpose tool/machine
a multiracial society
Women seem to be able to multitask better than men.
a multitouch screen/display/keyboard
multitouch capability/technology
a multitude of possibilities
a multitude of birds
These elements can be combined in a multitude of different ways.
The region attracts tourists in their multitudes.
It was an elite that believed its task was to enlighten the multitude.
to feed the starving multitudes
He preached to the assembled multitude.
My mum says I can't go.
Happy Birthday, Mum.
A lot of mums and dads have the same worries.
I could hear him mumbling to himself.
She mumbled an apology and left.
'Sorry,' she mumbled.
She mumbled that she was sorry.
He spoke in a low mumble, as if to himself.
They tried to make sense of her mumblings.
'I want my mummy!' he wailed.
It hurts, Mummy!
Mummy and Daddy will be back soon.
an Egyptian mummy
a mumsy dress
She munched on an apple.
He sat in a chair munching his toast.
I munched my way through a huge bowl of cereal.
a mundane task/job
I lead a pretty mundane existence.
On a more mundane level, can we talk about the timetable for next week?
municipal elections/councils
municipal workers
the Los Angeles Municipal Art Gallery
a munificent patron/gift/gesture
a shortage of munitions
a munitions factory
a munition store
mural paintings
a murderous villain/tyrant
a murderous attack
She gave him a murderous look (= a very angry one).
She gazed into the murky depths of the water.
a murky night
He had a somewhat murky past.
the murky world of arms dealing
She murmured her agreement.
He murmured something in his sleep.
She was murmuring in his ear.
The wind murmured in the trees.
She answered in a faint murmur.
Murmurs of 'Praise God' went around the circle.
a murmur of agreement/approval/complaint
He paid the extra cost without a murmur (= without complaining at all).
polite murmurings of gratitude
the distant murmur of traffic
a heart murmur
a calf/neck/thigh muscle
to pull/tear/strain a muscle
This exercise will work the muscles of the lower back.
He didn't move a muscle (= stood completely still).
He's an intelligent player but lacks the muscle of older competitors.
to exercise political/industrial/financial muscle
heavily muscled shoulders
muscular tension/power/tissue
a muscular body/build/chest
He was tall, lean and muscular.
He felt that his muse had deserted him (= that he could no longer write, paint, etc.).
I sat quietly, musing on the events of the day.
'I wonder why?' she mused.
a museum of modern art
a science museum
The vegetables had turned to mush.
His insides suddenly felt like mush.
Cook until the fruit is soft but not mushy.
mushy romantic novels
a field mushroom (= the most common type that is eaten, often just called a 'mushroom', and often grown to be sold)
fried mushrooms
cream of mushroom soup
We expect the market to mushroom in the next two years.
pop/dance/classical/church music
She could hear music playing somewhere.
It was a charming piece of music.
the popularity of Mozart's music
He wrote the music but I don't know who wrote the words.
The poem has been set to music.
Every week they get together to make music (= to play music or sing).
to study music
a career in music
music lessons
the music business/industry
Can you read music (= understand the signs in order to play or sing a piece of music)?
I had to play it without the music.
The music (= the paper or book with the musical notes on it) was still open on the piano.
the musical director of the show
musical talent/ability/skill
musical styles/tastes
a musical production/entertainment
She's very musical.
a musical voice
Most pupils learn (to play) a musical instrument.
the instruments of the orchestra
musically gifted
Musically speaking, their latest album is nothing special.
He plays really musically.
to laugh/speak musically
a jazz/rock musician
We had to sit and listen to his musings on life.
a musky perfume (= smelling of or like musk )
Hey, don't muss up my hair!
All visitors must report to reception.
Cars must not park in front of the entrance (= it is not allowed).
(formal) I must ask you not to do that again.
You mustn't say things like that.
I must go to the bank and get some money.
I must admit (= I feel that I should admit) I was surprised it cost so little.
(especially BrE) Must you always question everything I say?(= it is annoying)
'Do we have to finish this today?' 'Yes, you must.'
You must be hungry after all that walking.
He must have known (= surely he knew) what she wanted.
I'm sorry, she's not here. She must have left already (= that must be the explanation).
You must be home by 11 o'clock.
I must wash the car tomorrow.
I have to collect the children from school at 3 o'clock.
Nurses have to wear a uniform.
I must finish this essay today. I'm going out tomorrow.
I have to finish this essay today. We have to hand them in tomorrow.
I had to wait half an hour for a bus
We'll have to borrow the money we need.
I have to go to the dentist tomorrow.
Do the children have to wear a uniform?
Passengers must not smoke until the signs have been switched off.
You mustn't leave the gate open.
You don't have to pay for the tickets in advance.
She doesn't have to work at weekends.
He has (got) to be the worst actor on TV!
(BrE) This must be the most boring party I've ever been to.
Your trip must have been fun!
You simply must read this book.
We must get together soon for lunch.
Sydney is one of the world's must-see cities.
The magazine is a must-read in the show business world.
His new novel is a must for all lovers of crime fiction.
a jar of mustard
mustard powder
French/English mustard
mustard and cress (= leaves of white mustard grown with cress )
a mustard sweater
We mustered what support we could for the plan.
She left the room with all the dignity she could muster.
The troops mustered.
to muster an army
muster stations (= parts of a building, a ship, etc. that people must go to if there is an emergency)
a musty room
a mutant gene
the ability of the virus to mutate into new forms
mutated genes
Rhythm and blues mutated into rock and roll.
cells affected by mutation
genetic mutations
(linguistics 语言学) vowel mutation
The same contract, mutatis mutandis, will be given to each employee (= the contract is basically the same for everybody, but the names, etc. are changed).
a look of mute appeal
The child sat mute in the corner of the room.
He muted the strings with his palm.
She thought it better to mute her criticism.
They spoke in muted voices.
The proposals received only a muted response.
a dress in muted shades of blue
muted trumpets
The body had been badly mutilated.
Intruders slashed and mutilated several paintings.
Thousands suffered death or mutilation in the bomb blast.
Discontent among the ship's crew finally led to the outbreak of mutiny.
the famous movie 'Mutiny on the Bounty'
We have a family mutiny on our hands!
mutinous workers
a mutinous expression
'How dare she,' he muttered under his breath.
She just sat there muttering to herself.
I muttered something about needing to get back to work.
He muttered that he was sorry.
Workers continued to mutter about the management.
the soft mutter of voices
There have been mutterings about his leadership.
mutual respect/understanding
mutual support/aid
I don't like her, and I think the feeling is mutual (= she doesn't like me either).
We met at the home of a mutual friend.
They soon discovered a mutual interest in music.
a mutually beneficial/supportive relationship
Can we find a mutually convenient time to meet?
The two views are not mutually exclusive (= both can be true at the same time).
a muzzy head
Those drugs made me feel muzzy.
a muzzy voice
muzzy plans
They accused the government of muzzling the press.
the MV Puma
He has just earned his fourth MVP award this season.
Mwalimu Julius Nyerere
The common mwananchi is demanding change.
Where's my passport?
My feet are cold.
My goodness! Look at the time!
my dear/darling/love
My dear girl, you're wrong.
(specialist) a myopic child/eye
(disapproving) a myopic strategy
myopic voters
I cut myself on a knife.
I wrote a message to myself.
I found myself unable to speak.
I haven't been feeling myself recently (= I have not felt well).
I needed space to be myself (= not influenced by other people).
I'll speak to her myself.
I myself do not agree.
mystical forces/powers
mystic beauty
Watching the sun rise over the mountain was an almost mystical experience.
the mystical life
Eastern mysticism
They were totally mystified by the girl's disappearance.
He looked at her in mystification.
The mystique surrounding the monarchy has gone for ever.
ancient Greek myths
a creation myth (= that explains how the world began)
the heroes of myth and legend
It is time to dispel the myth of a classless society (= to show that it does not exist).
Contrary to popular myth, women are not worse drivers than men.
Scott of the Antarctic was a national hero of mythic proportions.
mythical beasts/heroes
the mythical 'rich uncle' that he boasts about
mythological subjects/figures/stories
Greek mythology
a study of the religions and mythologies of ancient Rome
the popular mythology that life begins at forty
Mzee Kenyatta
He was the only mzungu there.
'Night' begins with (an) N/'N'.
The equation is impossible for any value of n greater than 2.
N Ireland
He was nabbed by the police for speeding.
Who's nabbed my drink?
What is it worth? Zero, zilch, nada!
the nadir of his career
Company losses reached their nadir in 2009.
We have nae money.
It's nae (= not) bad.
There was a naff band playing.
Stop nagging—I'll do it as soon as I can.
She had been nagging him to paint the fence.
A feeling of unease nagged at her.
Doubts nagged me all evening.
a nagging pain/doubt
a nagging voice
Stop biting your nails!
nail clippers
She hammered the nail in.
They're good customers who always pay on the nail.
I nailed the sign to a tree.
The police haven't been able to nail the killer.
We must nail this lie.
He nailed a victory in the semi-finals.
She nailed it on her second jump.
All the parties seem anxious to nail down a ceasefire.
She says she'll come, but I can't nail her down to a specific time.
nail polish/varnish remover
a pair of nail scissors
a nail-biting finish
It's been a nail-biting couple of weeks waiting for my results.
That penalty was nailed on—it should never have been denied by the referee!
a nailed-on bet
to be politically naive
I can't believe you were so naive as to trust him!
a naive question
Their approach to life is refreshingly naive.
I naively assumed that I would be paid for the work.
They laughed at the naivety of his suggestion.
She has lost none of her naivety.
a naked body
naked shoulders
They often wandered around the house stark naked (= completely naked).
They found him half naked and bleeding to death.
The prisoners were stripped naked.
a naked light
a naked sword
Mice are born naked (= without fur).
(BrE) a naked flame
naked aggression
the naked truth
bare walls
a bare hillside
a naked sword
the bare minimum
naked fear
(visible) to/with the naked eye
He still felt naked and drained after his ordeal.
nakedly aggressive
What's your name?
What is/was the name, please?(= a polite way of asking sb's name)
Please write your full name and address below.
Do you know the name of this flower?
Rubella is just another name for German measles.
Are you changing your name when you get married?
My name is Maria.
His name is Tom Smith.
John T. Harvey
Hillary Rodham Clinton
Hello, Maria.
Hello, Mr Brown.
Thank you, Doctor.
She first made her name as a writer of children's books.
He's made quite a name for himself (= become famous).
The college has a good name for languages.
This kind of behaviour gives students a bad name.
a big-name company
brand-name goods
Some of the biggest names in the art world were at the party.
I recognize the tune but I can't put a name to it.
(humorous) Have you been taking my name in vain again?
He rejoiced in the name of Owen Owen.
(NAmE also ) He was named after his father (= given his father's first name).
They named their son John.
Can you name all the American states?
The missing man has been named as James Kelly.
Name your price.
They're engaged, but they haven't yet named the day (= chosen the date for their wedding).
Activities available include squash, archery and swimming, to name but a few.
Chairs, tables, cabinets— you name it, she makes it (= she makes anything you can imagine).
I had no hesitation in naming him (as) captain.
When she resigned, he was named to the committee in her place.
She started her speech by giving a namecheck to all the people who had helped her.
The songs namecheck other artists and bands.
The book was namechecked in today's paper.
a nameless grave
thousands of nameless and faceless workers
a nameless source in the government
a well-known public figure who shall remain nameless
nameless horrors
a nameless longing
We need to concentrate on our target audience, namely women aged between 20 and 30.
Unlike his more famous namesake, this Gordon Brown has little interest in politics.
I felt a right nana.
When is Nanny coming to stay?
my nan and grandad
nanosecond
nanoscale particles/devices/electronics
nanotechnological research
to take/have a nap
Her hair was cut short at the nape of her neck.
I'll change her nappy.
a disposable nappy (= one that is made to be used once only)
nappy rash
a narcotics agent (= a police officer investigating the illegal trade in drugs)
a mild narcotic
a mild narcotic effect
She entertained them by narrating her adventures in Africa.
The film was narrated by Andrew Sachs.
He has recorded the narration for the production.
a gripping narrative of their journey up the Amazon
The novel contains too much dialogue and not enough narrative.
narrative fiction
a first-person narrator
narrow streets
a narrow bed/doorway/shelf
narrow shoulders/hips
There was only a narrow gap between the bed and the wall.
(figurative) the narrow confines of prison life
a narrow victory
He lost the race by the narrowest of margins.
She was elected by a narrow majority.
He had a narrow escape when his car skidded on the ice.
narrow interests
She has a very narrow view of the world.
The shop sells only a narrow range of goods.
a narrow circle of friends
I am using the word 'education' in the narrower sense.
The narrowness of the streets caused many traffic problems.
We were surprised by the narrowness of our victory.
His attitudes show a certain narrowness of mind.
His wife is trying to keep him on the straight and narrow.
This is where the river narrows.
The gap between the two teams has narrowed to three points.
Her eyes narrowed (= almost closed) menacingly.
He narrowed his eyes at her.
We need to try and narrow the health divide between rich and poor.
We have narrowed down the list to four candidates.
a narrow-gauge railway
a narrow-minded attitude
a narrow-minded nationalist
The car narrowly missed a cyclist.
She narrowly escaped injury.
The team lost narrowly.
a narrowly defined task
a narrowly specialized education
She looked at him narrowly.
the nasal passages
a nasal spray
a nasal accent
a nasty accident
The news gave me a nasty shock.
I had a nasty feeling that he would follow me.
He had a nasty moment when he thought he'd lost his passport.
This coffee has a nasty taste.
Don't buy that coat—it looks cheap and nasty.
to make nasty remarks about sb
the nastier side of her character
to have a nasty temper
Don't be so nasty to your brother.
That was a nasty little trick.
Life has a nasty habit of repeating itself.
a nasty bend (= dangerous for cars going fast)
a nasty injury
to have a nasty mind
nasty jokes
'I hate you,' she said nastily.
her natal home
He was wearing the latest T-shirt, natch.
an independent nation
the African nations
The entire nation, it seemed, was watching TV.
Citizenship is about the sense of nationhood.
national and local newspapers
national and international news
national and regional politics
a national election
These buildings are part of our national heritage.
They are afraid of losing their national identity.
a national airline/museum/theatre
Polish nationals living in Germany
I got my glasses on the National Health (Service).
to do your national service
nationalized industries
Scottish nationalism
Scottish nationalists
nationalist sentiments
to take/have/hold French nationality
All applicants will be considered regardless of age, sex, religion or nationality.
The college attracts students of all nationalities.
She has dual nationality (= is a citizen of two countries).
Kazakhstan alone contains more than a hundred nationalities.
The programme was broadcast nationally.
Meetings were held locally and nationally.
He's a talented athlete who competes nationally and internationally.
a nationwide campaign
The company has over 500 stores nationwide.
your native land/country/city
It is a long time since he has visited his native Chile.
Her native language is Korean.
native Berliners
native peoples
native art
the native plants of America
The tiger is native to India.
native species
native cunning
a native of New York
You can always tell the difference between the tourists and the natives.
She speaks Italian like a native.
disputes between early settlers and natives
The kangaroo is a native of Australia.
Native American languages
natural disasters
the natural world (= of trees, rivers, animals and birds)
a country's natural resources (= its coal, oil, forests, etc.)
wildlife in its natural habitat
natural yogurt (= with no flavour added)
My hair soon grew back to its natural colour (= after being dyed).
The clothes are available in warm natural colours.
to die of natural causes (= not by violence, but normally, of old age)
He thought social inequality was all part of the natural order of things.
She was the natural choice for the job.
the natural agility of a cat
the natural processes of language learning
It's only natural to worry about your children.
He's a natural leader.
It's difficult to look natural when you're feeling nervous.
His natural mother was unable to care for him so he was raised by an aunt.
She was a natural daughter of King James II.
natural justice/law
B natural
She took to flying like a natural.
He's a natural for the role.
to have a good natter
a natty suit
a natty little briefcase
Naturally, I get upset when things go wrong.
After a while, we naturally started talking about the children.
'Did you complain about the noise?' 'Naturally.'
naturally occurring chemicals
plants that grow naturally in poor soils
This leads naturally to my next point.
to be naturally artistic
a naturally gifted athlete
Just act naturally.
the Natural History Museum
He has written a natural history of Scotland.
to study behaviour in laboratory and naturalistic settings
The naturalness of the dialogue made the book so true to life.
Teenagers lose their childhood simplicity and naturalness.
the naturalness of her reaction
the beauties of nature
man-made substances not found in nature
nature conservation
We stopped to admire the scenery.
the forces/laws of nature
Just let nature take its course.
Her illness was Nature's way of telling her to do less.
It's not in his nature to be unkind.
She is very sensitive by nature.
We appealed to his better nature (= his kindness).
the changing nature of society
It's difficult to define the exact nature of the problem.
My work is very specialized in nature.
books of a scientific nature
Don't worry about things of that nature.
a good-natured man
A medical herbalist or naturopath will be able to advise on individual treatment plans.
naturopathic medicine
a naturopathic physician
a naughty boy/girl
(humorous) I'm being very naughty—I've ordered champagne!
a naughty joke/word
He wouldn't stop shouting so she made him sit on the naughty step until he had calmed down.
(figurative) The MP is now on the naughty step for leaking confidential information to the press.
A wave of nausea swept over her.
Nausea and vomiting are common symptoms.
I was nauseated by the violence in the movie.
a nauseating smell
his nauseating behaviour
She felt dizzy and nauseous.
a nauseous smell
nautical terms
navigation systems
an expert in navigation
the right of navigation through international waters
The site was redesigned to improve navigation.
navigational aids
a naval base/officer/battle
the British and German navies
He's joined the navy/the Navy.
an officer in the navy/the Navy
The navy is/are considering buying six new warships.
to navigate by the stars
I'll drive, and you can navigate.
How do you navigate your way through a forest?
The river became too narrow and shallow to navigate.
We next had to navigate a complex network of committees.
a navy blue suit
She was dressed in navy blue.
'Want some toast?' 'Naw.'
Such a policy is difficult, nay impossible.
NB The office will be closed from 1 July.
NBC News
NE England
neanderthal attitudes
His house is very near.
Where's the nearest bank?
The conflict is unlikely to be resolved in the near future (= very soon).
She has a 12-point lead over her nearest rival.
He was the nearest thing to (= the person most like) a father she had ever had.
The election proved to be a near disaster for the party.
a near impossibility
Only the nearest relatives were present at the funeral.
the nearness of death
We calculated the cost to the nearest 50 dollars.
A bomb exploded somewhere near.
She took a step nearer.
Visitors came from near and far.
The exams are drawing near.
a near-perfect performance
I'm as near certain as can be.
The job doesn't pay anywhere near enough for me.
One dog looks pretty much like another to me.
Do you live near here?
Go and sit nearer (to) the fire.
My birthday is very near Christmas.
I'll think about it nearer (to) the time (= when it is just going to happen).
Share prices are near their record high of last year.
Profits fell from $11 million to nearer $8 million.
Nobody else comes near her in intellect.
He's nearer 70 than 60.
This colour is nearest (to) the original.
a state near (to) death
She was near to tears (= almost crying).
We came near to being killed.
The project is nearing completion.
She was nearing the end of her life.
We neared the top of the hill.
As Christmas neared, the children became more and more excited.
(figurative) He should have won the match—it was a near miss.
Her mother lived in a nearby town.
There were complaints from nearby residents.
They live nearby.
The car is parked nearby.
The bottle's nearly empty.
I've worked here for nearly two years.
It's nearly time to leave.
The audience was nearly all men.
He's nearly as tall as you are.
They're nearly always late.
She very nearly died.
It's not nearly as hot as last year.
There isn't nearly enough time to get there now.
the car's nearside doors
Keep to the nearside lane.
The driver lost control and veered to the nearside.
a neat desk
neat handwriting
neat rows of books
She was wearing a neat black suit.
They sat in her neat and tidy kitchen.
Try and be neater!
her neat figure
a neat explanation
a neat solution to the problem
It's a really neat movie.
We had a great time—it was pretty neat.
neat whisky
neatly folded clothes
The box fitted neatly into the drawer.
She summarized her plan very neatly.
a nebulous concept
The number of places available is necessarily limited.
The more expensive articles are not necessarily better.
Biggest doesn't necessarily mean best.
'We're going to lose.' 'Not necessarily.'
It may be necessary to buy a new one.
It doesn't seem necessary for us to meet.
Only use your car when absolutely necessary.
If necessary, you can contact me at home.
I'll make the necessary arrangements.
This is a necessary consequence of progress.
Recent financial scandals have necessitated changes in parliamentary procedures.
Increased traffic necessitated widening the road.
His new job necessitated him/his getting up at six.
We recognize the necessity for a written agreement.
We were discussing the necessity of employing more staff.
There had never been any necessity for her to go out to work.
This is, of necessity, a brief and incomplete account.
Many people cannot even afford basic necessities such as food and clothing.
Air-conditioning is an absolute necessity in this climate.
Living in London, he felt, was an unfortunate necessity.
He tied a scarf around his neck.
Giraffes have very long necks.
She craned (= stretched) her neck to get a better view.
He broke his neck in the fall.
Somebody's going to break their neck (= injure themselves) on these steps.
What neck size do you take?
a round-necked sweater
the neck of a bottle
a neck of land
neck of lamb
He's from your neck of the woods (= the area where you live).
a diamond necklace
a dress with a low/round/plunging neckline
(figurative) On such a hot day, even water was nectar (= very good).
peach nectar
Jane Smith, née Brown
a need-blind admissions policy
Information will be released strictly on a need-to-know basis.
a needle and thread
the eye (= hole) of a needle
knitting needles
a hypodermic needle
The compass needle was pointing north.
Don't let her needle you.
needless suffering
Banning smoking would save needless deaths.
Many soldiers died needlessly.
The process was needlessly slow.
The problem, needless to say, is the cost involved.
We must needs depart.
neeps and tatties
nefarious activities
Alcohol negates the effects of the drug.
This political system was the negation of democracy.
She shook her head in negation.
The crisis had a negative effect on trade.
The whole experience was definitely more positive than negative.
Scientists have a fairly negative attitude to the theory.
'He probably won't show up.' 'Don't be so negative.'
His response was negative.
They received a negative reply.
a negative form/sentence
Her pregnancy test was negative.
a negative charge/current
the negative terminal of a battery
a negative trade balance
to react negatively to stress
to respond negatively
negatively charged electrons
She answered in the negative (= said 'no').
The percentage of false negatives generated by the cancer test is of great concern.
She denies neglecting her baby.
The buildings had been neglected for years.
Dance has been neglected by television.
She has neglected her studies.
You neglected to mention the name of your previous employer.
The law imposes penalties for the neglect of children.
The buildings are crumbling from years of neglect.
The place smelled of decay and neglect.
neglected children
a neglected area of research
neglectful parents
She became neglectful of her appearance.
The cost was negligible.
a negligible amount
The accident was caused by negligence on the part of the driver.
The doctor was sued for medical negligence.
The school had been negligent in not informing the child's parents about the incident.
grossly negligent
He waved his hand in a negligent gesture.
The defendant drove negligently and hit a lamp post.
She was leaning negligently against the wall.
The government will not negotiate with terrorists.
We have been negotiating for more pay.
a strong negotiating position
negotiating skills
to negotiate a deal/contract/treaty/settlement
We successfully negotiated the release of the hostages.
The climbers had to negotiate a steep rock face.
peace/trade/wage, etc. negotiations
They begin another round of negotiations today.
to enter into/open/conduct negotiations with sb
The rent is a matter for negotiation between the landlord and the tenant.
A contract is prepared in negotiation with our clients.
The issue is still under negotiation.
The price is generally open to negotiation.
The terms of employment are negotiable.
The price was not negotiable.
We want to get all the parties back to the negotiating table.
We've had a lot of support from all our friends and neighbours.
Our next-door neighbours are very noisy.
What is Britain's nearest neighbour?
Stand quietly, children, and try not to talk to your neighbour.
The tree fell slowly, its branches caught in those of its neighbours.
We should all love our neighbours.
The farm neighbours the holiday village.
We grew up in the same neighbourhood.
a poor/quiet/residential neighbourhood
Manhattan is divided into distinct neighborhoods.
the neighbourhood police
He shouted so loudly that the whole neighbourhood could hear him.
We searched the surrounding neighbourhood for the missing boy.
Houses in the neighbourhood of Paris are extremely expensive.
a neighbouring house
neighbouring towns
a neighbouring farmer
the importance of good neighbourly relations between the two states
neighbourly help
a neighbourly dispute
It was a neighbourly gesture of theirs.
good neighbourliness
a sense of community and neighbourliness
Neither answer is correct.
Neither of them has/have a car.
They produced two reports, neither of which contained any useful suggestions.
'Which do you like?' 'Neither. I think they're both ugly.'
He didn't remember and neither did I.
I hadn't been to New York before and neither had Jane.
'I can't understand a word of it.' ' Neither can I.'
(informal) 'I don't know.' ' Me neither.'
I neither knew nor cared what had happened to him.
Their house is neither big nor small.
Neither the TV nor the DVD player actually work/works.
Has she finally met her nemesis?
He strode out to face his old nemesis.
neo-Georgian
neo-fascist
Neolithic stone axes
Neolithic settlements
neon lights/signs
the hospital's neonatal unit
neonatal care
The site gives neophytes the chance to learn from experts.
the optic nerve
nerve cells
nerve endings
Every nerve in her body was tense.
Even after years as a singer, he still suffers from nerves before a performance.
I need something to calm/steady my nerves.
Everyone's nerves were on edge (= everyone felt tense ).
He lives on his nerves (= is always worried).
It took a lot of nerve to take the company to court.
I was going to have a go at parachuting but lost my nerve at the last minute.
He kept his nerve to win the final set 6–4.
I don't know how you have the nerve to show your face after what you said!
He's got a nerve asking us for money!
'Then she demanded to see the manager!' ' What a nerve! '
He nerved himself to ask her out.
The knife fell from her nerveless fingers.
She is a nerveless rider.
Consumers are very nervous about the future.
The horse may be nervous of cars.
He had been nervous about inviting us.
I felt really nervous before the interview.
a nervous glance/smile/voice (= one that shows that you feel anxious)
By the time the police arrived, I was a nervous wreck.
She was a thin, nervous girl.
He's not the nervous type.
a nervous condition/disorder/disease
She was in a state of nervous exhaustion.
She smiled nervously.
He tried to hide his nervousness.
to have a nervous breakdown
a nest of thieves
to leave the nest (= leave your parents' home)
a nest of tables
Thousands of seabirds are nesting on the cliffs.
He hugged her and she nestled against his chest.
He nestled the baby in his arms.
The little town nestles snugly at the foot of the hill.
net curtains
fishing nets
a mosquito net (= used to protect you from mosquitoes)
to kick the ball into the back of the net
We tried to contact all former students, but one or two slipped through the net.
They have spread their net far and wide in the search for a new team coach.
a net profit of £500
net income/earnings (= after tax has been paid)
450 gms net weight
The net result is that small shopkeepers are being forced out of business.
Canada is now a substantial net importer of medicines (= it imports more than it exports).
a net gain
a salary of $50 000 net
Interest on the investment will be paid net (= tax will already have been taken away).
The sale of paintings netted £17 000.
A swoop by customs officers netted a large quantity of drugs.
He has netted 21 goals so far this season.
a person's nether regions (= their genitals )
There is little chance that we will succeed in changing the law. Nevertheless, it is important that we try.
Our defeat was expected but it is disappointing nevertheless.
wire netting
My remarks clearly nettled her.
a rail/road/canal network
a network of veins
a communications/distribution network
a network of friends
The office network allows users to share files and software, and to use a central printer.
the four big US television networks
Conferences are a good place to network.
a nuclear power station
the nuclear industry
nuclear-powered submarines
a nuclear weapon/bomb/missile
a nuclear explosion/attack/war
the country's nuclear capability (= the fact that it has nuclear weapons)
nuclear capacity (= the number of nuclear weapons a country has)
nuclear particles
a nuclear reaction
neural processes
neuroscience
a neurosurgeon
neurological damage
neurotic obsessions
a brilliant but neurotic actor
The Polish word for 'window' is neuter.
Has your cat been neutered?
Journalists are supposed to be politically neutral.
I didn't take my father's or my mother's side; I tried to remain neutral.
neutral territory/waters
Switzerland was neutral during the war.
'So you told her?' he said in a neutral tone of voice.
He believes that technology is morally neutral until it is applied.
a neutral colour scheme
neutral tones
the neutral wire in a plug
to leave the car in neutral
The room was decorated in neutrals.
The latest figures should neutralize the fears of inflation.
a neutralist state
You never help me.
He has never been abroad.
'Would you vote for him?' 'Never.'
'I work for a company called Orion Technology.' 'Never heard of them.'
Never in all my life have I seen such a horrible thing.
Never ever tell anyone your password.
I never knew (= didn't know until now) you had a twin sister.
(especially BrE) Someone might find out, and that would never do (= that is not acceptable).
He never so much as smiled (= did not smile even once).
(especially BrE) 'I told my boss exactly what I thought of her.' 'You never did!' (= 'Surely you didn't!')
(BrE, slang) 'You took my bike.' 'No, I never.'
(old-fashioned or humorous) Never fear (= Do not worry), everything will be all right.
to buy a new car on the never-never
'I got the job.' 'Never!'
He went to Harvard—as he never tires of reminding us.
Housework is a never-ending task.
Have you read her new novel?
new ways of doing things
This idea isn't new.
The latest model has over 100 new features.
It was a good mix of the old and the new.
Let me show you my new dress.
A second-hand car costs a fraction of a new one.
I like your new hairstyle.
When do you start your new job?
He's made a lot of new friends.
This is a new experience for me.
I'd like to learn a new language.
the discovery of a new star
Our system is probably new to you.
I should tell you, I'm completely new to this kind of work.
I am new to the town.
a new arrival/recruit
You're new here, aren't you?
He was enjoying his new-found freedom.
the new morality
They called themselves the New Romantics.
a new day
It was a new era in the history of our country.
She went to Australia to start a new life.
Since he changed jobs he's looked like a new man.
The new buds are appearing on the trees now.
new potatoes (= ones dug from the soil early in the season)
Hi! What's new?
a New Age festival
New Age travellers (= people in Britain who reject the values of modern society and travel from place to place, living in their vehicles)
one of the most exciting directors of the Australian new wave
new wave films
Happy New Year!
We're going to Germany for Christmas and New Year.
I'll see you in the new year.
new-build properties/apartments
How is she handling her new-found fame?
his new-found freedom/confidence/enthusiasm
a newly qualified doctor
a newly created job
a newly independent republic
What's the latest news?
Have you heard the news? Pat's leaving!
That's great news.
Tell me all your news.
Have you had any news of Patrick?
Any news on the deal?
Messengers brought news that the battle had been lost.
Do you want the good news or the bad news first?
a piece/bit of news
(informal) It's news to me (= I haven't heard it before).
national/international news
a news story/item/report
News of a serious road accident is just coming in.
breaking news (= news that is arriving about events that have just happened)
She is always in the news.
The wedding was front-page news.
to listen to/watch the news
Can you put the news on?
I saw it on the news.
the nine o'clock news
Pop stars are always news.
She works on the news desk.
I'll go to the newsagent's on my way home.
a newsy letter
a crowd of reporters and TV newsmen
a daily/weekly newspaper
a local/national newspaper
an online newspaper
a newspaper article
I read about it in the newspaper.
a newspaper cutting
She works for the local newspaper (= the company that produces it).
newspaper proprietors
Wrap all your glasses in newspaper.
The cat is from the house next door.
The manager's office is just next door.
We live next door to the bank.
our next-door neighbours
the next-door house
Is that next door's dog?
I'm her next of kin.
Her next of kin have been informed.
The form must be signed by next of kin.
We sat next to each other.
Next to skiing my favourite sport is skating.
Charles knew next to nothing about farming.
The horse came next to last (= the one before the last one) in the race.
Next to her I felt like a fraud.
an NFC device/payment
an NHS hospital
I had the operation done on the NHS (= paid for by the NHS).
We sat drinking wine and nibbling olives.
He nibbled her ear playfully.
She took some cake from the tray and nibbled at it.
He nibbled at the idea, but would not make a definite decision.
Inflation is nibbling away at spending power.
a nice day/smile/place
nice weather
Did you have a nice time?
You look very nice.
'Do you want to come, too?' 'Yes, that would be nice.'
The nicest thing about her is that she never criticizes us.
Nice to meet you! (= a friendly greeting when you meet sb for the first time)
It's been nice meeting you.
It's nice that you can come with us.
It would be nice if he moved to London.
We all had the flu last week—it wasn't very nice.
It's nice to know that somebody appreciates what I do.
a nice hot bath
a nice long walk
It was nice and warm yesterday.
Everyone arrived nice and early.
Our new neighbours are very nice.
He's a really nice guy.
Be nice to me. I'm not feeling well.
It was nice of them to invite us.
I complained to the manager and he was very nice about it.
I asked him in the nicest possible way to put his cigarette out.
The party was great.
We had a brilliant weekend.
That's a nice thing to say!
That's a nice way to speak to your mother!
a nice point of law (= one that is difficult to decide)
In some professions, niceness does not get you very far.
You got the job? Nice one!
You did a good job today. Nice work, James!
What a nice-looking young man!
The room was nicely furnished.
The plants are coming along nicely (= growing well).
If you ask her nicely she might say yes.
His novels nicely describe life in Britain between the wars.
the nicety of his argument
He eventually found his niche in sports journalism.
They spotted a niche in the market, with no serious competition.
a niche market
the development of niche marketing (= aiming products at particular groups)
He'll end up in the nick.
He nicked himself while shaving.
Who nicked my pen?
You're nicked!
Set the money aside so you don't nickel-and-dime it away.
She's careful not to nickel-and-dime clients for extra charges.
She was nicknamed 'The Ice Queen'.
There's some nifty guitar work on his latest CD.
a nifty little gadget for slicing cucumbers
a niggle of doubt
He gets the occasional niggle in his right shoulder.
A doubt niggled at her.
(BrE) It niggled him that she had not phoned back.
(BrE) Something was niggling her.
She had niggling doubts about their relationship.
a series of niggling injuries
niggling details
They've lived in that house for nigh on 30 years.
Winter was drawing nigh.
These animals only come out at night.
They sleep by day and hunt by night.
The accident happened on Friday night.
on the night of 10 January/January 10
Did you hear the storm last night?
I lay awake all night.
Where did you spend the night?
You're welcome to stay the night here.
What is he doing calling at this time of night?
You'll feel better after you've had a good night's sleep.
The trip was for ten nights.
The hotel costs €65 per person per night.
the night train/boat/flight
Night fell (= it became dark).
Let's go out on Saturday night.
Bill's parents came for dinner last night.
She doesn't like to walk home late at night.
I saw her in town the other night (= a few nights ago).
I'm working late tomorrow night.
the first/opening night (= of a play, film/movie, etc.)
a karaoke night
an Irish/a Scottish, etc. night (= with Irish/Scottish music, entertainment, etc.)
He can't get used to working nights (= at night).
'Night night, sleep tight!'
My daughter's spending the night with a friend.
to be on night duty
This area can be very noisy at night-time.
a nightly news bulletin
He still has nightmares about the accident.
The trip turned into a nightmare when they both got sick.
(informal) Nobody knows what's going on— it's a nightmare!
(informal) Filling in all those forms was a nightmare.
Losing a child is most people's worst nightmare.
If it goes ahead, it will be the nightmare scenario (= the worst thing that could happen).
a nightmare situation
nightmarish living conditions
Her latest play is a nihilistic vision of the world of the future.
Newcastle beat Leeds four nil/by four goals to nil.
The doctors rated her chances as nil (= there was no chance).
You need nimble fingers for that job.
She was extremely nimble on her feet.
I'm always emailing her, but nine times out of ten she doesn't reply.
When Dan cooks dinner he always goes the whole nine yards, with three courses and a choice of dessert.
The temperature must be in the nineties today.
He winced as the dog nipped his ankle.
She nipped at my arm.
The icy wind nipped at our faces.
growing shoots nipped by frost
He's just nipped out to the bank.
A car nipped in (= got in quickly) ahead of me.
There was a real nip in the air.
The presidential contest is nip and tuck.
a nippy little sports car
a grease nipple
We need to cut nitrate levels in water.
Time ran out before we could get down to the real nitty-gritty.
Just say yes or no.
'Are you ready?' 'No, I'm not.'
Sorry, the answer's no.
'Another drink?' 'No, thanks.'
It's about 70—no, I'm wrong—80 kilometres from Rome.
No! Don't touch it! It's hot.
'It was Tony.' 'No, you're wrong. It was Ted.'
'It's not very good, is it?' 'No, you're right, it isn't (= I agree).'
'She's had an accident.' 'Oh, no!'
'I'm leaving!' 'No!'
'Are you enjoying it?' 'Yes and no.'
No student is to leave the room.
There were no letters this morning.
There's no bread left.
No two days are the same.
No smoking!
There's no telling what will happen next.
She's no fool (= she's intelligent).
It was no easy matter (= it was difficult).
She's feeling no better this morning.
Reply by no later than 21 July.
Can't you give me a straight yes or no?
When we took a vote there were nine yesses and three noes.
I'll put you down as a no.
The noes have it (= more people have voted against sth than for it).
No offence, but I'd really like to be on my own.
No one was at home.
There was no one else around.
We were told to speak to no one.
I have no place else to go.
'Can I pay by credit card?' 'Yes, no problem.'
'Thanks for the ride.' 'No problem.'
I can let you have it by next week. No probs.
The whistle went for no side.
We will never allow that to happen! No sir!
No sooner had she said it than she burst into tears.
'Thanks for everything.' 'Hey, no sweat!'
We managed to get it finished in the end—no thanks to him (= he didn't help).
no-fault insurance (= in which the insurance company pays for damage, etc. without asking whose fault it was)
a no-frills airline
(figurative) Some clubs are no-go areas for people over 30.
(figurative) This subject is definitely a no-go area (= we must not discuss it).
We are considering the options available to us in this no-win situation.
Room No. 145
They've got no friends to speak of.
She's saved a little money but nothing to speak of.
his attempts to nobble the jury
He was nobbled by the press who wanted details of the affair.
a noble leader
noble ideals
He died for a noble cause.
a noble building
a man of noble birth
She bore the disappointment nobly.
to be nobly born
The book contrasts modern civilization with the ideal of the noble savage who lived in harmony with nature.
Nobody knew what to say.
She rose from being a nobody to become a superstar.
a nocturnal visit
I asked him if he would help me and he nodded.
Her head nodded in agreement.
He nodded his head sympathetically.
She nodded approval.
The president nodded to the crowd as he passed in the motorcade.
She nodded at him to begin speaking.
to nod a greeting
I asked where Steve was and she nodded in the direction of the kitchen.
He sat nodding in front of the fire.
to give a nod of approval/agreement/encouragement
a network node
a lymph node
Joyful Noel
a rattling noise
What's that noise?
Don't make a noise.
They were making too much noise.
I was woken by the noise of a car starting up.
We had to shout above the noise of the traffic.
to reduce noise levels
Try not to make so much noise.
What a terrible noise!
All she could hear was the sound of the waves.
There is some noise in the data which needs to be reduced.
He moved with noiseless steps.
noisy children/traffic/crowds
a noisy protest (= when people shout)
The engine is very noisy at high speed.
a noisy classroom
The children were playing noisily upstairs.
noisome smells
nomadic tribes
the nomadic life of a foreign correspondent
the nominal leader of the party
He remained in nominal control of the business for another ten years.
We only pay a nominal rent.
He was nominally in charge of the company.
She has been nominated for the presidency.
He was nominated (as) best actor.
I nominated Paul to take on the role of treasurer.
I have been nominated to the committee.
She was nominated to speak on our behalf.
1 December has been nominated as the day of the election.
Membership of the club is by nomination only.
He won the nomination as Democratic candidate for the presidency.
They opposed her nomination to the post of Deputy Director.
He has had nine Oscar nominations.
nominative pronouns
a presidential nominee
an Oscar nominee
nonsense
non-fiction
non-alcoholic
non-profit-making
non-committally
a policy of non-aggression
a non-aggression pact/treaty
a non-alcoholic drink
Can I have something non-alcoholic?
a policy of non-alignment
a non-committal reply/tone
The doctor was non-committal about when I could drive again.
There are penalties for non-compliance with the fire regulations.
A strike is unlikely, but some forms of non-cooperation are being considered.
a non-custodial sentence/penalty
a non-dairy whipped topping
He admits that he's a non-dom for tax purposes.
I have no money for non-essentials.
a non-existent problem
'How's your social life?' 'Non-existent, I'm afraid.'
Hospital beds were scarce and medicines were practically non-existent.
I prefer reading non-fiction.
the non-fiction section of the library
non-flammable nightwear
similarities between human and non-human animals
training for non-professional staff
non-professional actors
an independent non-profit organization
The centre is run on a non-profit basis.
The charity is non-profit-making.
non-proprietary medicines
a non-refundable deposit
a non-refundable ticket (= you cannot return it and get your money back)
a non-renewable contract
Non-resident guests are welcome to use the hotel swimming pool.
a non-residential course
non-returnable bottles
a non-slip bath mat
This is a non-smoking area.
She's a non-smoking, non-drinking fitness fanatic.
Non-smoking is now the norm in most workplaces.
The candidate's speech was non-specific.
non-standard dialects
non-standard English
The paper was of non-standard size.
As a business proposition, it's a non-starter.
a non-stop flight to Tokyo
a non-stop train/service
non-stop entertainment/work
We flew non-stop from Paris to Chicago.
It rained non-stop all week.
students from non-traditional backgrounds
non-union labour/workers
They ordered a non-veg meal.
non-verbal communication
non-violent resistance
a non-violent protest
non-violent crimes
to appear/look/sound nonchalant
'It'll be fine,' she replied, with a nonchalant shrug.
an air of nonchalance
He was leaning nonchalantly against the wall.
None of these pens works/work.
We have three sons but none of them lives/live nearby.
We saw several houses but none we really liked.
Tickets for Friday? Sorry we've got none left.
He told me all the news but none of it was very exciting.
'Is there any more milk?' 'No, none at all.'
(formal) Everybody liked him but none (= nobody) more than I.
None of the work was done.
None of the trains is/are going to London.
None of her family has/have been to college.
None but he knew the truth.
Her first customer was none other than Mrs Obama.
She told me what it meant at great length but I'm afraid I'm none the wiser.
He seems none the worse for the experience.
She was looking none too pleased.
The book is too long but, nonetheless, informative and entertaining.
The problems are not serious. Nonetheless, we shall need to tackle them soon.
Reports that he has resigned are nonsense.
You're talking nonsense!
'I won't go.' 'Nonsense! You must go!'
It's nonsense to say they don't care.
The idea is an economic nonsense.
The new teacher won't stand for any nonsense.
a book of children's nonsense poems
Most of the translation he did for me was complete nonsense.
chicken noodle soup
Would you prefer rice or noodles?
a shady nook in the garden
dark woods full of secret nooks and crannies
We should be there by noon.
The conference opens at 12 noon on Saturday.
the noon deadline for the end of hostilities
I'm leaving on the noon train.
the glaring light of high noon
the noonday sun
a hangman's noose
(figurative) His debts were a noose around his neck.
'Have you seen my pen?' 'Nope.'
She seemed neither surprised nor worried.
He wasn't there on Monday. Nor on Tuesday, for that matter.
(formal) Not a building nor a tree was left standing.
She doesn't like them and nor does Jeff.
'I'm not going.' 'Nor am I.'
a departure from the norm
Older parents seem to be the norm rather than the exception nowadays.
social/cultural norms
detailed education norms for children of particular ages
You can use the information to norm the test.
quite/perfectly (= completely) normal
Her temperature is normal.
It's normal to feel tired after such a long trip.
Divorce is complicated enough in normal circumstances, but this situation is even worse.
Under normal circumstances, I would say 'yes'.
He should be able to lead a perfectly normal life.
In the normal course of events I wouldn't go to that part of town.
We are open during normal office hours.
People who commit such crimes aren't normal.
above/below normal
Things soon returned to normal.
a lotion to normalize oily skin
The two countries agreed to normalize relations (= return to a normal, friendly relationship, for example after a disagreement or war).
It took time until the political situation had normalized.
the normalization of relations
They are hoping for a return to normality now that the war is over.
I'm not normally allowed to stay out late.
It's normally much warmer than this in July.
It normally takes 20 minutes to get there.
Her heart is beating normally.
Just try to behave normally.
a Norman church/castle
the Norman Conquest
a normative approach
Which way is north?
cold winds coming from the north
Mount Kenya is to the north of (= further north than) Nairobi.
birds migrating from the north
Houses are less expensive in the North (= of England) than in the South.
North London
the north bank of the river
The house faces north.
They live ten miles north of Boston.
The estimated value is north of $5.4 billion.
They've gone to live up north.
a north-country accent
travelling in a north-easterly direction
northbound traffic
the northbound carriageway of the motorway
the northern slopes of the mountains
northern Scotland
a northern accent
travelling in a northerly direction
a northerly breeze
the northernmost city in the world
to go/look/turn northwards
in a northward direction
She achieved notoriety for her affair with the senator.
He gained a certain notoriety as a gambler.
a notorious criminal
The country is notorious for its appalling prison conditions.
The bar has become notorious as a meeting-place for drug dealers.
Mountain weather is notoriously difficult to predict.
He broke his nose in the fight.
She wrinkled her nose in disgust.
He blew his nose (= cleared it by blowing strongly into a handkerchief ).
a blocked/runny nose
Stop picking your nose!(= removing dirt from it with your finger)
red-nosed
large-nosed
As a journalist, she has always had a nose for a good story.
a dog with a good nose
The budget should hit the $136 billion target on the nose.
I searched everywhere for the letter and it was under my nose all the time!
The police didn't know the drugs ring was operating right under their noses.
I'm just going to powder my nose.
The company just thumbs its nose at the legislation on pollution.
The plane nosed down through the thick clouds.
The taxi nosed its way back into the traffic.
Dogs nosed around in piles of refuse.
We found a man nosing around in our backyard.
Reporters nosed out all the details of the affair.
Oil prices took a nosedive in the crisis.
These policies have sent the construction industry into an abrupt nosedive.
Building costs have nosedived.
She likes her nosh.
Did you have a good nosh?
We went for a nosh-up at that new restaurant in town.
nosy neighbours
Don't be so nosy—it's none of your business.
a sense/wave/pang of nostalgia
She is filled with nostalgia for her own college days.
nostalgic memories
I feel quite nostalgic for the place where I grew up.
to look back nostalgically to your childhood
She did not/didn't see him.
It's not/It isn't raining.
I can't see from here.
He must not go.
Don't you eat meat?
It's cold, isn't it?
He warned me not to be late.
I was sorry not to have seen them.
Not everybody agrees.
'Who's next?' 'Not me.'
'What did you do at school?' ' Not a lot.'
It's not easy being a parent (= it's difficult).
'Will she be there?' 'I hope not.'
'Is it ready?' 'I'm afraid not.'
(formal) 'Does he know?' 'I believe not.'
I don't know if he's telling the truth or not.
'Some more?' 'Not for me, thanks.'
'Can I throw this out?' 'Certainly not.'
He didn't speak to me—not one word.
'Thanks a lot.' 'Not at all.'
'Will it bother you if I smoke?' 'Not at all.'
She not only wrote the text but also selected the illustrations.
She hasn't written—not that she said she would.
It didn't cost a penny.
You should have seen him in his swimming trunks—not a pretty sight!
I wouldn't work for her again—not at any price!
You're not supposed to walk on the grass.
His work isn't up to much.
I wouldn't hurt you for the world.
If he doesn't manage to convince them, it won't be for want of trying (= he has tried hard).
I wouldn't do your job. Not for all the tea in China!
Not for nothing was he called the king of rock and roll.
I didn't get a wink of sleep last night.
I hardly slept a wink.
He doesn't give a shit about anybody else.
Nobody had a good word to say about him.
He didn't seem to mind in the slightest.
It's not worth losing sleep over.
He's not exactly the sharpest knife in the drawer, is he?
In those days, $20 was not a sum to be sneezed at.
In those days, $20 was not a sum to be sniffed at.
a difficult, not to say impossible, task
Not to worry—I can soon fix it.
Not to worry—no harm done.
I've tried to ask her advice, but she doesn't want to know (= about my problems).
'How much was it?' ' You don't want to know ' (= it is better if you don't know).
a not-for-profit organization
I'd never have thought of that in a million years.
Never in my wildest dreams did I think I'd meet him again.
a notable success/achievement/example
His eyes are his most notable feature.
The town is notable for its ancient harbour.
With a few notable exceptions, everyone gave something.
All the usual local notables were there.
The house had many drawbacks, most notably its price.
This has not been a notably successful project.
The quality of the food here has dropped a notch recently.
For each day he spent on the island, he cut a new notch in his stick.
She tightened her belt an extra notch.
The team has notched up 20 goals already this season.
Please make a note of the dates.
She made a mental note (= decided that she must remember) to ask Alan about it.
Just a quick note to say thank you for a wonderful evening.
She left a note for Ben on the kitchen table.
a suicide note
a new edition of 'Hamlet', with explanatory notes
See note 3, page 259.
He sat taking notes of everything that was said.
Can I borrow your lecture notes?
Patients' medical notes have gone missing.
The sleeve notes include a short biography of the performers on this recording.
a £5 note
We only exchange notes and traveller's cheques.
He played the first few notes of the tune.
high/low notes
There was a note of amusement in his voice.
On a more serious note (= speaking more seriously) …
On a slightly different note (= changing the subject slightly), let's talk about…
a sick note from your doctor
The buyer has to sign a delivery note as proof of receipt.
an exchange of diplomatic notes
a scientist of note
The museum contains nothing of great note.
She sounded a note of warning in her speech.
Take note of what he says.
Note the fine early Baroque altar inside the chapel.
Note how these animals sometimes walk with their tails up in the air.
It should be noted that dissertations submitted late will not be accepted.
It is worth noting that the most successful companies had the lowest prices.
a noted dancer
He is not noted for his sense of humour.
The lake is noted as a home to many birds.
a notepad by the phone for messages
There was nothing in her bag.
There's nothing you can do to help.
The doctor said there was nothing wrong with me.
Nothing else matters to him apart from his job.
It cost us nothing to go in.
(BrE) He's five foot nothing (= exactly five feet tall).
'What's that in your pocket?' 'Oh, nothing.'
We did nothing at the weekend.
Nothing but a miracle can save her now.
I want nothing but the best for my children.
The trip was nothing if not varied.
It was nothing less than a disaster.
It looks nothing like a horse.
I had nothing like enough time to answer all the questions.
There's nothing much in the fridge.
I got up late and did nothing much all day.
There was nothing else for it but to resign.
There was a rumour she was going to resign, but there was nothing in it.
There's nothing like a brisk walk on a cold day!
to whisper sweet nothings in sb's ear
a noticeable improvement
This effect is particularly noticeable in younger patients.
It was noticeable that none of the family were present.
Her hand was shaking noticeably.
Marks were noticeably higher for girls than for boys.
Don't take any notice of what you read in the papers.
Take no notice of what he says.
These protests have really made the government sit up and take notice (= realize the importance of the situation).
It was Susan who brought the problem to my notice (= told me about it).
Normally, the letter would not have come to my notice (= I would not have known about it).
(formal) It will not have escaped your notice that there have been some major changes in the company.
There was a notice on the board saying the class had been cancelled.
a notice saying 'Keep off the Grass'
notices of births, marriages and deaths
There are just two notices this week.
You must give one month's notice.
Prices may be altered without notice.
The bar is closed until further notice (= until you are told that it is open again).
You are welcome to come and stay as long as you give us plenty of notice.
He has handed in his notice.
They gave her two weeks' notice.
People were making fun of him but he didn't seem to notice.
I couldn't help noticing (that) she was wearing a wig.
Did you notice how Rachel kept looking at her watch?
I noticed them come in.
I didn't notice him leaving.
She wears those strange clothes just to get herself noticed.
advance/prior notification (= telling sb in advance about sth)
written notification
You should receive (a) notification of our decision in the next week.
Competition winners will be notified by post.
The police must be notified of the date of the demonstration.
The date of the demonstration must be notified to the police.
Members have been notified that there will be a small increase in the fee.
a political system based on the notions of equality and liberty
She had only a vague notion of what might happen.
I have to reject the notion that greed can be a good thing.
Notwithstanding some major financial problems, the school has had a successful year.
The bad weather notwithstanding, the event was a great success.
Notwithstanding, the problem is a significant one.
A million is written with six noughts.
nought point one (= written 0.1)
I give the programme nought out of ten for humour.
All our efforts have come to nought (= have not been successful).
In the sentence 'I spoke to the driver of the car', 'the driver of the car' is a noun phrase.
All the children were well nourished and in good physical condition.
By investing in education, we nourish the talents of our children.
nourishing food
Can plants obtain adequate nourishment from such poor soil?
(figurative) As a child, she was starved of intellectual nourishment.
to write/publish/read a novel
detective/historical/romantic novels
the novels of Jane Austen
a novel feature
a romantic/historical novelist
It was fun working there at first but the novelty soon wore off (= it became boring).
There's a certain novelty value in this approach.
Electric cars are still something of a novelty.
a novelty teapot
I'm a complete novice at skiing.
computer software for novices/the novice user
Where are you living now?
It's been two weeks now since she called.
It's too late now.
From now on I'll be more careful.
He'll be home by now.
I've lived at home up till now.
That's all for now.
Start writing now.
I am now ready to answer your questions.
Now they want to tax food!
What do you want now?
It's broken. Now I'll have to get a new one.
Now, listen to what she's saying.
Now, the next point is quite complex.
Now come and sit down.
Now let me think…
And now for some travel news.
Now then, that's enough noise.
Her moods kept changing—now happy, now sad.
Now then, who wants to come for a walk?
'Yes, but Dad…' 'Now what?'
Now that the kids have left home we've got a lot of extra space.
Nowadays most kids prefer watching TV to reading.
I'll be with you now-now.
She left now-now.
This animal is found in Australia, and nowhere else.
There was nowhere for me to sit.
'Where are you going this weekend?' 'Nowhere special.'
Nowhere is the effect of government policy more apparent than in agriculture.
There's nowt wrong with it.
noxious fumes
Howden, nr Goole
It's the nth time I've explained it to you.
He watched her face intently to catch every nuance of expression.
The nub of the matter is that business is declining.
Currency controls would be the nuclear option.
a nuclear-free zone
These paintings will form the nucleus of a new collection.
a nude model
He asked me to pose nude for him.
a nude photograph
Are there any nude scenes in the movie?
a bronze nude by Rodin
a reclining nude
He nudged me and whispered, 'Look who's just come in.'
He nudged the ball past the goalie and into the net.
She nudged me out of the way.
(figurative) He nudged the conversation towards the subject of money.
(figurative) She tried to nudge him into changing his mind (= persuade him to do it).
He nudged his way through the crowd.
Inflation is nudging 20%.
This afternoon's sunshine could nudge the temperature above freezing.
She gave me a gentle nudge in the ribs to tell me to shut up.
(figurative) He can work hard but he needs a nudge now and then.
nudie photographs
a nudist beach/camp
The committee claimed that there was too much nudity on television.
chicken nuggets
a useful nugget of information
I don't want to be a nuisance so tell me if you want to be alone.
I hope you're not making a nuisance of yourself.
It's a nuisance having to go back tomorrow.
What a nuisance!
He was charged with causing a public nuisance.
a null result
The contract was declared null and void.
Judges were unwilling to nullify government decisions.
An unhealthy diet will nullify the effects of training.
to be/go numb
numb with cold
I've just been to the dentist and my face is still numb.
He felt numb with shock.
Her life would never be the same again, she realized numbly.
pain and numbness in my fingers
He was still in a state of numbness and shock from the accident.
His fingers were numbed with the cold.
We sat there in silence, numbed by the shock of her death.
Think of a number and multiply it by two.
a high/low number
even numbers (= 2, 4, 6, etc.)
odd numbers (= 1, 3, 5, etc.)
You owe me 27 dollars? Make it 30, that's a good round number.
They live at number 26.
The song reached number 5 in the charts.
My phone number is 266998.
I'm sorry, I think you have the wrong number (= wrong telephone number).
What is your account number, please?
A large number of people have applied for the job.
The number of homeless people has increased dramatically.
Huge numbers of (= very many) animals have died.
A number of (= some) problems have arisen.
I could give you any number of (= a lot of) reasons for not going.
We were eight in number (= there were eight of us).
Nurses are leaving the profession in increasing numbers.
Sheer weight of numbers (= the large number of soldiers) secured them the victory.
staff/student numbers
one of our number (= one of us)
The prime minister is elected by MPs from among their number.
the October number of 'Vogue'
They sang a slow romantic number.
She was wearing a black velvet number.
The word 'men' is plural in number.
The subject of a sentence and its verb must agree in number.
The Foreign Secretary is currently having talks with his opposite number in the White House.
They won the argument by sheer weight of numbers.
All the seats in the stadium are numbered.
I couldn't work out the numbering system for the hotel rooms.
Number the car's features from 1 to 10 according to importance.
The doors were numbered 2, 4, 6 and 8.
The crowd numbered more than a thousand.
We numbered 20 (= there were 20 of us in the group).
I number her among my closest friends.
He numbers among the best classical actors in Britain.
We're number one in the used car business.
The new album went straight to number one.
She's had three number ones.
Looking after number one is all she thinks about.
It's only a number one.
the world's number one athlete
the number one priority
Number Ten had nothing to say on the matter.
Mum, I need a number two.
The players all wear numbered shirts.
numbing cold/fear
Watching television had a numbing effect on his mind.
standards of literacy and numeracy
All students should be numerate and literate when they leave school.
numerical data
The results are expressed in descending numerical order.
to express the results numerically
He has been late on numerous occasions.
The advantages of this system are too numerous to mention.
a papal nuncio
nuptial bliss
a nuptial mass
a qualified/registered nurse
student nurses
a male nurse
a dental nurse (= one who helps a dentist)
a psychiatric nurse (= one who works in a hospital for people with mental illnesses)
Nurse Bennett
Nurse, come quickly!
He worked in a hospital for ten years nursing cancer patients.
She nursed her daughter back to health.
Several weeks after the match, he was still nursing a shoulder injury.
You'd better go to bed and nurse that cold.
(figurative) She was nursing her hurt pride.
to nurse an ambition/a grievance/a grudge
She had been nursing a secret desire to see him again.
to nurse tender young plants
He sat nursing his cup of coffee.
a nursing mother
The lioness is still nursing her cubs.
Her youngest child is at nursery now.
nursery education
a nursery teacher
a career in nursing
nursing care
the nursing profession
These delicate plants need careful nurturing.
children nurtured by loving parents
It's important to nurture a good working relationship.
She secretly nurtured a hope of becoming famous.
to crack a nut (= open it)
a Brazil nut
a hazelnut
nuts and raisins
to tighten a nut
a wheel nut
He's a complete nut, if you ask me.
a fitness/tennis/computer, etc. nut
I'm going to have to nut it out on a piece of paper.
nut-brown hair
freshly grated nutmeg
a lack of essential nutrients
Plants draw minerals and other nutrients from the soil.
children suffering from a serious nutrient deficiency
advice on diet and nutrition
to study food science and nutrition
the nutritional value of milk
a nutritionally balanced menu
tasty and nutritious meals
My friends think I'm nuts for saying yes.
That phone ringing all the time is driving me nuts!
He's absolutely nuts about her.
a nutty taste
She's got some nutty friends.
He's as nutty as a fruitcake (= completely crazy).
She nuzzled his ear.
The child nuzzled up against his mother.
NVQ Level 3 in Catering
NW Australia
a nylon fishing line
This material is 45% nylon.
a dragonfly nymph
'Orange' begins with (an) O/'O'.
My number is six o double three (= 6033).
O level French
She took six subjects at O level.
He's got an O level in Russian.
Guitar £200 o.n.o.
a couple o' times
He left between five and six o'clock.
at/after/before eleven o'clock
Mind that cup, you clumsy oaf!
a gnarled old oak tree
forests of oak and pine
oak beams
This table is made of solid oak.
He pulled as hard as he could on the oars.
an oasis of calm
a green oasis in the heart of the city
oat cakes
oat bran
to take/swear an oath of allegiance
Before giving evidence, witnesses in court have to take the oath (= promise to tell the truth).
She heard the sound of breaking glass, followed by a muttered oath.
Is she prepared to give evidence on oath?
The judge reminded the witness that he was still under oath.
an oatmeal carpet
obscene gestures/language/books
an obscene phone call (= in which sb says obscene things)
He earns an obscene amount of money.
It's obscene to spend so much on food when millions are starving.
to behave obscenely
obscenely rich
She was made an OBE.
Matthew Silk OBE
an obedient child
He was always obedient to his father's wishes.
blind/complete/unquestioning/total obedience
He has acted in obedience to the law.
Most information was collected by direct observation of the animals' behaviour.
results based on scientific observations
We managed to escape observation (= we were not seen).
The suspect is being kept under observation (= watched closely by the police).
She has outstanding powers of observation (= the ability to notice things around her).
an observation post/tower (= a place from where sb, especially an enemy, can be watched)
She has some interesting observations on possible future developments.
Obesity can increase the risk of heart disease.
to obey a command/an order/rules/the law
He had always obeyed his parents without question.
'Sit down!' Meekly, she obeyed.
everyday objects such as cups and saucers
Glass and plastic objects lined the shelves.
There is a new device for cars that warns drivers of traffic jams ahead.
His kitchen is full of gadgets he never uses.
'What do you call the instrument that measures temperature?' 'A thermometer.'
'Have you got one of those tools for turning screws?' 'Do you mean a screwdriver?'
'What's a blender?' 'It's an electric machine for mixing soft food or liquid.'
climbing equipment
firefighters wearing breathing apparatus
Her sole object in life is to become a travel writer.
The object is to educate people about road safety.
If you're late, you'll defeat the whole object of the exercise.
Many local people object to the building of the new airport.
I really object to being charged for parking.
He objected that the police had arrested him without sufficient evidence.
object-oriented languages/programming
Java is object-oriented and well structured.
magazines that objectify women
I have no objection to him coming to stay.
I'd like to come too, if you have no objection.
The main objection to the plan was that it would cost too much.
to raise an objection to sth
No objections were raised at the time.
The proposal will go ahead despite strong objections from the public.
objectionable people/odours
Why are you being so objectionable today?
the main/primary/principal objective
to meet/achieve your objectives
You must set realistic aims and objectives for yourself.
The main objective of this meeting is to give more information on our plans.
an objective analysis/assessment/report
objective criteria
I find it difficult to be objective where he's concerned.
objective reality
Looked at objectively, the situation is not too bad.
Can these effects be objectively measured?
There was a lack of objectivity in the way the candidates were judged.
scientific objectivity
There were no objectors to the plan.
He felt obligated to help.
You are under no obligation to buy anything.
She did not feel under any obligation to tell him the truth.
I don't want people coming to see me out of a sense of obligation.
We will send you an estimate for the work without obligation (= you do not have to accept it).
to fulfil your legal/professional/financial obligations
They reminded him of his contractual obligations.
We have a moral obligation to protect the environment.
It is obligatory for all employees to wear protective clothing.
In the mid 60s he took the almost obligatory trip to India.
Parents are obliged by law to send their children to school.
I felt obliged to ask them to dinner.
He suffered a serious injury that obliged him to give up work.
Call me if you need any help—I'd be happy to oblige.
Would you oblige me with some information?
Oblige me by keeping your suspicions to yourself.
I'm much obliged to you for helping us.
I'd be obliged if you would keep this to yourself.
They were very obliging and offered to wait for us.
an oblique reference/approach/comment
He referred only obliquely to their recent problems.
Always cut stems obliquely to enable flowers to absorb more water.
The building was completely obliterated by the bomb.
The snow had obliterated their footprints.
Everything that happened that night was obliterated from his memory.
He often drinks himself into oblivion.
Sam longed for the oblivion of sleep.
An unexpected victory saved him from political oblivion.
Most of his inventions have been consigned to oblivion.
Hundreds of homes were bombed into oblivion during the first weeks of the war.
He drove off, oblivious of the damage he had caused.
You eventually become oblivious to the noise.
an oblong melon
a tiny oblong of glass in the roof
obnoxious behaviour
a thoroughly obnoxious little man
obnoxious odours
$800 obo
The editors are being prosecuted for obscenity.
the laws on obscenity
She screamed a string of obscenities at the judge.
an obscure German poet
He was born around 1650 but his origins remain obscure.
I found her lecture very obscure.
For some obscure reason, he failed to turn up.
They were making her feel obscurely worried (= for reasons that were difficult to understand).
The view was obscured by fog.
We mustn't let these minor details obscure the main issue.
The actress was only 17 when she was plucked from obscurity and made a star.
He spent most of his life working in obscurity.
The course teaches students to avoid ambiguity and obscurity of expression.
a speech full of obscurities
state obsequies
an obsequious manner
smiling obsequiously
observable differences
Similar trends are observable in mainland Europe.
observance of the law
a strict observance of the Sabbath
religious observances
Observant walkers may see red deer along this stretch of the road.
How very observant of you!
All the characters in the novel are closely observed (= seem like people in real life).
They observed him entering the bank.
She observed that all the chairs were already occupied.
He was observed to follow her closely.
I felt he was observing everything I did.
He observes keenly, but says little.
They observed how the parts of the machine fitted together.
Will the rebels observe the ceasefire?
The crowd observed a minute's silence (= were silent for one minute) in memory of those who had died.
Do they observe Christmas?
To the casual observer (= somebody who does not pay much attention), the system appears confusing.
A team of British officials were sent as observers to the conference.
a royal observer
He's obsessed by computers.
She's completely obsessed with him.
The need to produce the most exciting newspaper story obsesses most journalists.
I think you should try to stop obsessing about food.
Her fear of flying is bordering on obsession.
The media's obsession with the young prince continues.
Fitness has become an obsession with him.
She is obsessional about cleanliness.
obsessional behaviour
He's becoming more and more obsessive about punctuality.
an obsessive attention to detail
obsessively jealous
He worries obsessively about his appearance.
products with built-in/planned obsolescence (= designed not to last long so that people will have to buy new ones)
obsolete technology
With technological changes many traditional skills have become obsolete.
A lack of qualifications can be a major obstacle to finding a job.
So far, we have managed to overcome all the obstacles that have been placed in our path.
The area was full of streams and bogs and other natural obstacles.
obstetric medicine
He can be very obstinate when he wants to be!
her obstinate refusal to comply with their request
the obstinate problem of unemployment
an obstinate stain
an act of sheer obstinacy
He obstinately refused to consider the future.
You can't park here, you're obstructing my driveway.
First check that the accident victim doesn't have an obstructed airway.
The pillar obstructed our view of the stage.
They were charged with obstructing the police in the course of their duty.
terrorists attempting to obstruct the peace process
the obstruction of justice
He was arrested for obstruction of a police officer in the execution of his duty.
obstruction of the factory gates
The abandoned car was causing an obstruction.
It is my job to make sure that all pathways are clear of obstructions.
He had an operation to remove an obstruction in his throat.
bowel/intestinal obstruction
Of course she can do it. She's just being deliberately obstructive.
obstructive lung disease
to obtain advice/information/permission
I finally managed to obtain a copy of the report.
To obtain the overall score, add up the totals in each column.
These conditions no longer obtain.
Full details are obtainable from any post office.
Music from the next room obtruded upon his thoughts.
The sofa would be less obtrusive in a paler colour.
They tried to ensure that their presence was not too obtrusive.
Are you being deliberately obtuse?
The obverse of love is hate.
This new evidence obviates the need for any further enquiries.
It was obvious to everyone that the child had been badly treated.
It's obvious from what she said that something is wrong.
I know you don't like her but try not to make it so obvious.
He agreed with obvious pleasure.
For obvious reasons, I'd prefer not to give my name.
The reasons for this decision were not immediately obvious.
She was the obvious choice for the job.
There's no obvious solution to the problem.
This seemed the most obvious thing to do.
The ending was pretty obvious.
I may be stating the obvious but without more money the project cannot survive.
Obviously, we don't want to spend too much money.
Diet and exercise are obviously important.
He was obviously drunk.
They're obviously not coming.
'I didn't realise it was a formal occasion.' 'Obviously!' (= I can see by the way you are dressed)
on this/that occasion
I've met him on several occasions.
I can remember very few occasions when he had to cancel because of ill health.
They have been seen together on two separate occasions.
On one occasion, she called me in the middle of the night.
He used the occasion to announce further tax cuts.
a great/memorable/happy occasion
Turn every meal into a special occasion.
They marked the occasion (= celebrated it) with an open-air concert.
Their wedding turned out to be quite an occasion.
He was presented with the watch on the occasion of his retirement.
It should have been an occasion for rejoicing, but she could not feel any real joy.
I'll speak to him about it if the occasion arises (= if I get a chance).
I've had no occasion to visit him recently.
Her death was the occasion of mass riots.
I'm willing to go to court over this if the occasion arises (= if it becomes necessary).
He has been known on occasion to lose his temper.
The flight delay was occasioned by the need for a further security check.
The decision occasioned us much anxiety.
He works for us on an occasional basis.
I enjoy the occasional glass of wine.
He spent five years in Paris, with occasional visits to Italy.
an occasional smoker (= a person who smokes, but not often)
We occasionally meet for a drink after work.
This type of allergy can very occasionally be fatal.
an occluded artery
When exactly did the incident occur?
Something unexpected occurred.
Sugar occurs naturally in fruit.
The idea occurred to him in a dream.
It didn't occur to him that his wife was having an affair.
It didn't occur to her to ask for help.
occult practices
He's interested in witchcraft and the occult.
Prices are based on full occupancy of an apartment.
to be in sole occupancy
All outstanding bills will be paid by the previous occupants.
The car was badly damaged but the occupants were unhurt.
Please state your name, age and occupation below.
Her main occupation seems to be shopping.
the Roman occupation of Britain
The zones under occupation contained major industrial areas.
occupation forces
The offices will be ready for occupation in June.
The following applies only to tenants in occupation after January 1, 2010.
The level of owner occupation (= people owning their homes) has increased rapidly in the last 30 years.
occupational health
an occupational risk/hazard
an occupational pension scheme
occupationally induced disease
Only half of the rooms are occupied at the moment.
He's fully occupied looking after three small children.
Only half her time is occupied with politics.
The most important thing is to keep yourself occupied.
He spent his childhood in occupied Europe.
The letter was addressed to the occupier of the house.
The bed seemed to occupy most of the room.
How much memory does the program occupy?
Administrative work occupies half of my time.
He occupies an office on the 12th floor.
The capital has been occupied by the rebel army.
Protesting students occupied the TV station.
a game that will occupy the kids for hours
Problems at work continued to occupy his mind for some time.
She occupied herself with routine office tasks.
She occupied herself doing routine office tasks.
The president occupies the position for four years.
a common/an everyday/a frequent/a regular occurrence
Vandalism used to be a rare occurrence here.
The program counts the number of occurrences of any word within the text.
a link between the occurrence of skin cancer and the use of computer monitors
to suffer from OCD
the depths of the ocean
People were swimming in the ocean despite the hurricane warning.
The plane hit the ocean several miles offshore.
Our beach house is just a couple of miles from the ocean.
Ocean levels are rising.
the Antarctic/Arctic/Atlantic/Indian/Pacific Ocean
A swimmer drowned in the sea/ocean this morning.
the Mediterranean Sea
the Atlantic Ocean
We're spending a week by the sea/at the ocean in June.
We're going to the beach for vacation.
an oceanfront hotel
oceanic fish
Och, aye (= Oh, yes).
an octagonal coin
high-octane fuel
to play an octave higher
Orbison's vocal range spanned three octaves.
octagon
ocular muscles
ocular proof
They're very odd people.
There's something odd about that man.
It's most odd that (= very odd that) she hasn't written.
The odd thing was that he didn't recognize me.
She had the oddest feeling that he was avoiding her.
an odd-looking house
an odd-sounding name
He makes the odd mistake—nothing too serious.
decorations made of odd scraps of paper
You're wearing odd socks!
1, 3, 5 and 7 are odd numbers.
Could I see you when you've got an odd moment?
How old is she—seventy odd?
He's worked there for twenty-odd years.
the oddness of her appearance
His oddness frightened her.
to do odd jobs around the house
oddball characters
The book deals with some of the oddities of grammar and spelling.
She suddenly realized the oddity of her remark and blushed.
She's been behaving very oddly lately.
oddly coloured clothes
He looked at her in a way she found oddly disturbing.
She felt, oddly, that they had been happier when they had no money.
Oddly enough, the most expensive tickets sold fastest.
The odds are very much in our favour (= we are likely to succeed).
The odds are heavily against him (= he is not likely to succeed).
The odds are that (= it is likely that) she'll win.
What are the odds (= how likely is it) he won't turn up?
They secured a victory in the face of overwhelming odds.
Against all (the) odds, he made a full recovery.
odds of ten to one (= ten times the amount of money that has been bet by sb will be paid to them if they win)
They are offering long/short odds (= the prize money will be high/low because there is a high/low risk of losing) on the defending champion.
(figurative) I'll lay odds on him getting the job (= I'm sure he will get it).
Many collectors are willing to pay over the odds for early examples of his work.
She spent the day sorting through a box full of odds and ends.
I've got a few odds and ends (= small jobs) to do before leaving.
the odds-on favourite (= the person, horse, etc. that is most likely to succeed, to win a race, etc.)
It's odds-on that he'll be late.
Arazi is odds-on to win the Kentucky Derby.
Keats's 'Ode to a Nightingale'
What an odious man!
odorous gases
a foul/musty/pungent, etc. odour
the stale odour of cigarette smoke
(figurative) the odour of suspicion
an odourless liquid
Picasso's oeuvre
a friend of mine
the love of a mother for her child
the role of the teacher
Can't you throw out that old bike of Tommy's?
the paintings of Monet
a painting by Monet
the lid of the box
the director of the company
a member of the team
the result of the debate
a woman of Italian descent
the people of Wales
a story of passion
a photo of my dog
a map of India
the city of Dublin
the issue of housing
a crowd of people
a glass of milk
2 kilos of potatoes
an increase of 2%
a girl of 12
the fourth of July
the year of his birth
(old-fashioned) We would often have a walk of an evening.
some of his friends
a few of the problems
the most famous of all the stars
just north of Detroit
at the time of the revolution
(NAmE) at a quarter of eleven tonight (= 10.45 p.m.)
the arrival of the police (= they arrive)
criticism of the police (= they are criticized)
fear of the dark
the howling of the wind
to deprive sb of sth
He was cleared of all blame.
Think of a number, any number.
to be proud of sth
It was kind of you to offer.
Where's that idiot of a boy (= the boy that you think is stupid)?
I'm surprised that you of all people should say that.
Of all the nerve!
She of all people should know the answer to that.
Many rated him the best singer of all time.
in days of old
We know him of old (= we have known him for a long time).
He offered us an apology of sorts.
She felt a hand of steel (= a strong, firm hand) on her arm.
You need a cool head and nerves of steel (= great courage).
There was a hint of steel in his voice (= he sounded cold and firm).
in days of yore
She earns something in the order of £80 000 a year.
I called him but he ran off.
Sarah's off in India somewhere.
I must be off soon (= leave).
Off you go!
Summer's not far off now.
A solution is still some way off.
He's had his beard shaved off.
Take your coat off.
Don't leave the toothpaste with the top off.
They're off (= the race has begun).
The wedding is off.
The water is off.
Make sure the TV is off.
Sorry, the duck is off.
She's off today.
I've got three days off next week.
How many days did you take off?
I need some time off.
shoes with $20 off
All shirts have/are 10% off.
It rained on and off all day.
I fell off the ladder.
Keep off the grass!
an island off the coast of Spain
They were still 100 metres off the summit.
Scientists are still a long way off finding a cure.
We're getting right off the subject.
We live off Main Street.
There's a bathroom off the main bedroom.
You need to take the top off the bottle first!
I want about an inch off the back of my hair.
He's had ten days off school.
They knocked £500 off the car.
I got it off of my brother.
I'm off (= not drinking) alcohol for a week.
He's finally off drugs (= he no longer takes them).
This fish has gone off.
The milk smells off.
It's off.
He was a bit off with me this morning.
It's a bit off expecting us to work on Sunday.
They're ready for the off.
off-season prices
We prefer to travel off-season.
Tiger Woods is still three shots off the pace (= in golf ).
He buys his clothes off the peg.
off-the-peg fashions
I bought this package off the shelf.
off-the-shelf software packages
Some of his ideas are really off the wall.
off-the-wall ideas
That comment is completely off topic.
He keeps veering off topic.
offstage
offload
off-air recording
to record off-air
an off-duty policeman
Some of his remarks were very off-key.
to sing off-key
A number of people suffered reactions due to off-label prescriptions.
The antidepressant was prescribed off-label to treat an eating disorder.
The site is off-limits to the general public.
The subject was ruled off-limits.
off-peak electricity/travel
Phone calls cost 20c per unit off-peak.
off-piste skiing
We enjoy skiing off-piste.
I find his manner very off-putting.
an off-road vehicle (= one for driving on rough ground)
They were off-screen lovers.
She looks totally different off-screen.
an apartment with off-street parking
off-tackle play
an off-the-grid house, independent of traditional utility services
off-the-shelf software packages
offbeat humour
an offbeat approach to interviewing
official responsibilities
the Prime Minister's official residence
He attended in his official capacity as mayor.
This was her first official engagement.
He made an official visit to Tokyo in March.
an official announcement/decision/statement
according to official statistics/figures
An official inquiry has been launched into the cause of the accident.
The country's official language is Spanish.
I intend to lodge an official complaint (= to complain to sb in authority).
The news is not yet official.
I only knew the official version of events.
The official story has always been that they are just good friends.
an official function/reception
The official opening is planned for October.
a bank/company/court/government official
a senior official in the State Department
We often go there.
I've often wondered what happened to him.
How often do you go to the theatre?
I see her quite often.
Try to exercise as often as possible.
We should meet for lunch more often.
It is not often that you get such an opportunity.
Old houses are often damp.
People are often afraid of things they don't understand.
All too often the animals die through neglect.
You've tried that trick once too often.
a criminal/serious/minor/sexual, etc. offence
a first offence (= the first time that sb has been found guilty of a crime)
a capital offence (= one for which sb may be punished by death)
He was not aware that he had committed an offence.
an offence against society/humanity/the state
New legislation makes it an offence to carry guns.
I'm sure he meant no offence when he said that.
The photo may cause offence to some people.
No one will take offence (= feel upset or insulted) if you leave early.
Don't be so quick to take offence.
They'll be offended if you don't go to their wedding.
Neil did not mean to offend anybody with his joke.
A TV interviewer must be careful not to offend.
The smell from the farm offended some people.
an ugly building that offends the eye
He started offending at the age of 16.
comments that offend against people's religious beliefs
Alice looked rather offended.
a persistent/serious/violent, etc. offender
a young offender institution
When it comes to pollution, the chemical industry is a major offender.
The offending paragraph was deleted.
The traffic jam soon cleared once the offending vehicle had been removed.
The offending driver received a large fine.
to commit an offense
The new law makes it a criminal offense to drink alcohol in public places.
a minor/serious offense
She pleaded guilty to five traffic offenses.
The Redskins' offense is stronger than their defense.
He played offense for the Chicago Bulls.
offensive remarks
The programme contains language which some viewers may find offensive.
His comments were deeply offensive to a large number of single mothers.
an offensive smell
an offensive war
offensive action
He was charged with carrying an offensive weapon.
offensive play
an air offensive
They launched the offensive on January 10.
The government has launched a new offensive against crime.
a sales offensive
The public seems unconvinced by their latest charm offensive (= their attempt to make people like them).
Josie had offered her services as a guide.
He offered some useful advice.
I don't think they need help, but I think I should offer anyway.
He offered $4 000 for the car.
They decided to offer the job to Jo.
They decided to offer Jo the job.
I gratefully took the cup of coffee she offered me.
Taylor offered him 500 dollars to do the work.
The kids offered to do the dishes.
'I'll do it,' she offered.
Would you like a magazine to read?
Can I get you a coffee?
Can I offer you something to drink?
How about something to eat? I could make some sandwiches.
If you'd like to use/If you need the bathroom, it's the second door on the right.
Feel free to go upstairs and have a rest if you'd like to.
That would be nice. I'd like a cup of tea, please.
Yes, please. A glass of orange juice would be lovely.
If you're sure it's no trouble, I'd love a coffee.
No, thank you. I'm fine for now.
Not for me, thanks.
I'm fine, thanks. Maybe later.
The hotel offers excellent facilities for families.
The job didn't offer any prospects for promotion.
He did not offer any explanation for his behaviour.
We offered up our prayers for the men's safe return.
Thank you for your kind offer of help.
to accept/refuse/decline an offer
I took him up on his offer of a loan.
You can't just turn down offers of work like that.
an offer of marriage
I accepted her offer to pay.
I've had an offer of $2 500 for the car.
They've decided to accept our original offer.
The offer has been withdrawn.
They made me an offer I couldn't refuse.
The original price was £3 000, but I'm open to offers (= willing to consider offers that are less than that).
This special offer is valid until the end of the month.
See next week's issue for details of more free offers.
They have an offer on beer at the moment.
The following is a list of courses currently on offer.
Prizes worth more than £20 000 are on offer.
Italian wines are on (special) offer this week.
the latest offering from the Canadian-born writer
an offhand manner
He was very offhand with me.
He spoke offhandedly, making it clear I had no say in the matter.
I don't know offhand how much we made last year.
The library will be officially opened by the local MP.
We haven't yet been told officially about the closure.
The college is not an officially recognized English language school.
Many of those living on the streets are not officially homeless.
I'm not officially supposed to be here.
Officially, he resigned because of bad health.
The company is moving to new offices on the other side of town.
Are you going to the office today?
an office job
office workers
Some people have to share an office.
Come into my office.
a doctor's/dentist's office
the local tourist office
a ticket office
the Foreign Office
the Home Office
She held office as a cabinet minister for ten years.
How long has he been in office?
The party has been out of office (= has not formed a government) for many years.
The present government took office in 2009.
to seek/run for office
(BrE) to stand for office
the office of treasurer
Our telephone lines are open during normal office hours.
army/air-force/naval, etc. officers
a commissioned/non-commissioned officer
The matter was passed on to me, as your commanding officer.
an environmental health officer
a customs/prison/welfare officer
officers of state (= ministers in the government)
the officer in charge of the case
the investigating officer
Yes, officer, I saw what happened.
Officer Dibble
A referee from a neutral country will officiate (at) the game.
a nasty officious little man
'You can't park here,' he said officiously.
For offline orders, call this number.
How do I write an email offline?
Could you two take that offline so we can move onto the other items on the agenda?
They should stop offloading waste from oil tankers into the sea.
It's nice to have someone you can offload your problems onto.
Prices have risen in order to offset the increased cost of materials.
(BrE) What expenses can you offset against tax?
offshore drilling
an offshore island
offshore breezes
offshore investments
a ship anchored offshore
profits earned offshore
the offshoring of call-centre jobs to India
He was offside when he scored.
the offside rule
the offside mirror
The goal was disallowed for offside.
The offside was damaged.
the problems parents have with their teenage offspring
to produce/raise offspring
offstage sound effects
The stars were having an offstage relationship.
The hero dies offstage.
an oft-repeated claim
He was not in the habit of ogling women.
My boss is a real ogre.
'I saw Ben yesterday.' 'Oh yes, how is he?'
'Emma has a new job.' 'Oh, has she?'
Oh, how wonderful!
Oh no, I've broken it!
Oh, Sue! Could you help me a moment?
I've been in this job for, oh, about six years.
'We're off to France soon.' 'Oh yeah? When's that?'
'I'm going to be rich one day.' 'Oh yeah?' (= I don't believe you.)
their oh-so ordinary lives
Will you be using an OHP?
Oi, you! What do you think you're doing?
drilling for oil
engine oil
an oil lamp/heater
Put some oil in the car.
olive oil
vegetable oils
lavender bath oil
suntan oil
a painting done in oils
landscapes in oil
Among the more important Turner oils was 'Venus and Adonis'.
He oiled his bike and pumped up the tyres.
oily fish
an oily rag
an oily substance
an oily smile
antiseptic ointment
'Shall we go for a walk?' 'OK.'
Okay, let's go.
The meeting's at 2, OK?
I'll do it my way, OK?
OK, so I was wrong. I'm sorry.
Are you OK?
Is it OK if I leave now?
Is it OK for me to come too?
Does my hair look okay?
I think I did OK in the exam.
Whatever you decide, it's okay by me.
an okay movie
I'm still waiting for the boss to give me the OK.
She filled in an expenses claim and her manager OK'd it.
He's quite a big oke.
The baby was only a few hours old.
In those days most people left school when they were only fifteen years old.
At thirty years old, he was already earning £40 000 a year.
two fourteen-year-old boys
a class for five-year-olds (= children who are five)
I didn't think she was old enough for the responsibility.
How old is this building?
He's the oldest player in the team.
She's much older than me.
to get/grow old
The old man lay propped up on cushions.
She was a woman grown old before her time (= who looked older than she was).
The old feel the cold more than the young.
old habits
He always gives the same old excuses.
This carpet's getting pretty old now.
My brother is older than me.
The palace is the oldest building in the city.
my older/elder sister
the elder/older of their two children
I'm the eldest/oldest in the family.
Things were different in the old days.
I went back to visit my old school.
Old and Middle English
We had more room in our old house.
She's an old friend of mine (= I have known her for a long time).
We're old rivals.
Good old Dad!
You poor old thing!
I hate her, the silly old cow!
It's the same old story of a badly managed project with inadequate funding.
Old age can bring many problems.
He lived alone in his old age.
The old boy next door has died.
She met an old flame at the party.
The old girl next door has died.
She's an old hand at dealing with the press.
Today's hits rapidly become old hat.
old-fashioned clothes/styles/methods/equipment
My parents are old-fashioned about relationships and marriage.
an old-style dress shop
old-style politics
old-time dancing
an old-world hotel with character and charm
a pub that tries to recreate the flavour of olde England
the olde worlde atmosphere of the tea room with its log fire
What was life like in the olden days, Gran?
My ole man used to work there.
olfactory cells/nerves/organs
olive groves
an olive complexion
Management is holding out an olive branch to the strikers.
She's their only daughter.
We were the only people there.
His only answer was a grunt.
She's the only person for the job.
Here he is, the one and only Van Morrison!
There are only a limited number of tickets available.
The bar is for members only.
You only have to look at her to see she doesn't eat enough.
Only five people turned up.
I agreed, but only because I was frightened.
Children are admitted only if accompanied by an adult.
Only in Paris do you find bars like this.
Only if these conditions are fulfilled can the application proceed to the next stage.
It was only a suggestion.
Don't blame me, I'm only the messenger!
He was only teasing you.
She's only 21 and she runs her own business.
It only took a few seconds.
It took only a few seconds.
We only got here yesterday.
(formal) Only then did she realize the stress he was under.
We can only guess what happened.
He could only watch helplessly as the car plunged into the ravine.
I only hope that she never finds out.
If you do that, it will only make matters worse.
Trying to reason with him only enrages him even more.
She turned up the driveway, only to find her way blocked.
He not only read the book, but also remembered what he had read.
We've only just arrived.
He only just caught the train.
I can afford it, but only just.
I was only too pleased to help.
Children can be difficult as we know only too well.
I'd love to come, only I have to work.
It tastes like chicken, only stronger.
They come here with their ologies knowing nothing about life.
The 26th Olympiad took place in Atlanta, Georgia.
the 14th International Physics Olympiad
the greatest Olympian of all time
Olympian gymnasts
an Olympic athlete/medallist
the London Olympics, held in 2012
a cheese and mushroom omelette
a good/bad omen
an omen of death/disaster
The omens for their future success are not good.
OMG—I can't believe your parents are letting you go to Thailand on your own!
Omigod, we're going out of business!
Omigod, is that really his wife?
There were ominous dark clouds gathering overhead.
She picked up the phone but there was an ominous silence at the other end.
Everyone was surprised at her omission from the squad.
The play was shortened by the omission of two scenes.
sins of omission (= not doing things that should be done)
There were a number of errors and omissions in the article.
If you are a student, you can omit questions 16–18.
People were surprised that Smith was omitted from the team.
She omitted to mention that they were staying the night.
omnivore
omnipresent
the 90-minute Sunday omnibus edition
an omnibus law
an omnidirectional microphone
an omnipotent God
the omnipotence of God
These days the media are omnipresent.
The novel has an omniscient narrator.
She has always been an omnivorous reader.
a picture on a wall
There's a mark on your skirt.
the diagram on page 5
Put it down on the table.
He had been hit on the head.
She climbed on to the bed.
She was standing on one foot.
Try lying on your back.
Hang your coat on that hook.
He was on the plane from New York.
to travel on the bus/tube/coach
I came on my bike.
a woman on horseback
He came on Sunday.
We meet on Tuesdays.
on May the first/the first of May
on the evening of May the first
on one occasion
on your birthday
On arriving home I discovered they had gone.
Please report to reception on arrival.
There was a letter waiting for him on his return.
a book on South Africa
She tested us on irregular verbs.
Have you got any money on you?
to be on the committee/staff/jury/panel
Whose side are you on (= which of two or more different views do you support)?
He lived on a diet of junk food.
The doctor put me on antibiotics.
on the left/right
He turned his back on us.
a town on the coast
a house on the Thames
We lived on an estate.
a story based on fact
On their advice I applied for the job.
to live on a pension/a student grant
to be on a low wage
You can't feed a family on £50 a week.
Drinks are on me (= I am paying).
She played a tune on her guitar.
The information is available on the Internet.
We spoke on the phone.
What's on TV?
The programme's on Channel 4.
a ban on smoking
He's hard on his kids.
Go easy on the mayo!(= do not take/give me too much)
Sales are up on last year.
to be on business/holiday/vacation
The book is currently on loan.
You can get me on 020 7946 0887.
She's on extension 2401.
He worked on without a break.
If you like a good story, read on.
She stopped for a moment, then walked on.
Keep straight on for the beach.
From then on he never trusted her again.
Please send the letter on to my new address.
Put your coat on.
I didn't have my glasses on.
What did she have on (= what was she wearing)?
Make sure the lid is on.
The lights were all on.
The TV is always on in their house.
We were without electricity for three hours but it's on again now.
There was a war on at the time.
What's on at the movies?
The band are on (= performing) in ten minutes.
The game is still on (= it has not been cancelled).
I don't think we've got anything on this weekend.
I'm sorry we can't come—we've got a lot on.
I'm on now till 8 tomorrow morning.
The bus stopped and four people got on.
They hurried on to the plane.
She went on and on about her trip.
What's on television tonight?
Is there anything good on the telly tonight?
It was on TV yesterday.
I recognize you. Aren't you on television?
In the early years, the business was run on a shoestring.
These rich kids expect to have it all handed to them on a silver platter.
The idea looks good on paper.
Entry is only allowed on payment of the full registration fee.
The quotation was directly on point.
Let's stay on point.
Discounts only on production of your student ID card.
He did it on purpose, knowing it would annoy her.
Tickets are on sale from the booking office.
The new model goes on sale next month.
All video equipment is on sale today and tomorrow.
He hired and fired people on his partner's say-so.
I'll only take the job on my own terms.
I'm not doing it on your terms.
I'll wait here. No, on second thoughts, I'll come with you.
I put the iPod on shuffle and hit play.
The chocolates were on special at my local store.
The emergency services were put on standby after a bomb warning.
He was put on standby for the flight to New York.
He's only staying here on sufferance.
We have this sort of information on tap.
You don't have to worry on that score.
These shoes are a little on the tight side.
On the outside she seems calm, but I know she's worried.
Life on the outside took some getting used to again.
It was an error on my part.
She made several interesting points in the article.
I take your point (= understand and accept what you are saying).
He's just saying that to prove a point (= to show his idea is right).
OK, you've made your point!
The point is you shouldn't have to wait so long to see a doctor.
I wish he would get to the point (= say it quickly).
I'll come straight to the point: we need more money.
Do you see my point (= understand)?
I think I missed the point (= did not understand).
You have a point (= your idea is right) —it would be better to wait till this evening.
'There won't be anywhere to park.' 'Oh, that's a (good) point.' (= I had not thought of that)
It just isn't true. That's the whole point (= the only important fact).
'He's been married before.' ' That's beside the point (= not important).'
I know it won't cost very much but that's not the point (= not the important thing).
There's no point in getting angry.
I don't see the point of doing it all again.
Here are the main points of the news.
Can you explain that point again?
Tact is not one of her strong points.
Read the manual to learn the program's finer points (= small details).
Living in Scotland has its good points but the weather is not one of them.
One of the hotel's plus points (= good features) is that it is very central.
The climber was at/on the point of death when they found him.
We were on the point of giving up.
Many people suffer from mental illness at some point in their lives.
We had reached the point when there was no money left.
At this point in time we just have to wait.
At this point I don't care what you decide to do.
I'll wait for you at the meeting point in the arrivals hall.
the point at which the river divides
Draw a line from point A to point B.
No parking beyond this point.
the points of the compass (= N, S, E, W, etc.)
to win/lose a point
Australia finished 20 points ahead.
They won on points (= by scoring more points rather than by completely defeating their opponents).
The party's share of the vote fell by ten percentage points.
the point of a pencil/knife/pin
The ship sailed around the point.
Pagoda Point
two point six (2.6)
a decimal point
We broadcast on ninety-five point nine (95.9) FM.
The stars were points of light in the sky.
a power/shaver/telephone point
Change the text to 10 point.
Point taken. Let's drop the subject.
The letter was short and to the point.
He was rude to the point of being aggressive.
I agree with you up to a point.
'What's your name?' he asked, pointing at the child with his pen.
He pointed to the spot where the house used to stand.
She pointed in my direction.
It's rude to point!
She pointed her finger in my direction.
He pointed the gun at her head.
The telescope was pointing in the wrong direction.
The signpost pointed straight ahead.
A compass needle points north.
The evidence seems to point in that direction.
The fans are looking to the new players to point the way to victory.
I wonder if you could point me in the right direction for the bus station.
A series of yellow arrows pointed the way to reception.
I'll point him out to you next time he comes in.
She tried in vain to point out to him the unfairness of his actions.
He pointed out the dangers of driving alone.
I should point out that not one of these paintings is original.
'It's not very far,' she pointed out.
The board of directors pointed to falling productivity to justify their decision.
All the signs point to a successful year ahead.
The conference merely pointed up divisions in the party.
He's always on the qui vive for a business opportunity.
The band has been on the road for six months.
It will cost about £500 to get the car back on the road.
Life on the road can be very hard.
Sue's marriage is on the rocks.
Scotch on the rocks
He's on the run from the police.
I've been on the run all day and I'm exhausted.
Here are some quick recipes for when you're eating on the run (= in a hurry).
I took some extra cash just to be on the safe side.
a mechanic who buys and sells cars on the side
He's married but he has a girlfriend on the side.
He has to visit them on the sly.
He answered the question on the spot.
an on-the-spot parking fine
An ambulance was on the spot within minutes.
an on-the-spot report
Running on the spot is good exercise.
Our new model is already on the stocks and will be available in the spring.
I got the job on the strength of your recommendation.
It seems like a good idea on the surface but there are sure to be problems.
On the surface, he appeared unchanged.
Management have put several new proposals on the table.
They've now won three games on the trot.
I've been on the trot all day.
His luck is on the turn.
They agreed to the changes on the understanding that they would be introduced gradually.
Business confidence is on the up.
The club has been on the up and up since the beginning of the season.
The offer seems to be on the up and up.
Her popularity has been on the wane for some time.
She had to stand on tiptoe to reach the top shelf.
We crept around on tiptoes so as not to disturb him.
a cake with cream on top
Stand on top and look down.
He's going bald on top (= on the top of his head).
She remained on top for the rest of the match.
Look, here's 30 dollars, and I'll buy you lunch on top.
Books were piled on top of one another.
Many people were crushed when the building collapsed on top of them.
He gets commission on top of his salary.
On top of everything else, my car's been stolen.
We were all living on top of each other in that tiny apartment.
Do you think he's really on top of his job?
Keep the text short and on topic.
Let's get back on topic.
She explains how she deals with on-air technical problems.
an on-board motor
a PC with onboard sound
on-call doctors
The new network promises lightning-fast access to on-demand video.
on-field medical treatment
an on-off switch
on-screen courtroom dramas
on-screen messages
His on-screen father is also his father in real life.
That jacket is bang on-trend.
an on-trend haircut
He was content to watch from the sidelines as his wife built up a successful business empire.
The issue of terrorism is back on the radar screen.
I left my bags on one side.
I put his complaint to one side until I had more time.
Leaving that to one side for a moment, are there any other questions?
He was on the verge of tears.
They are on the verge of signing a new contract.
They were required to cut pollution levels, on pain of a £10 000 fine if they disobeyed.
I've only been there once.
He cleans his car once a week.
She only sees her parents once every six months.
(informal) He only did it the once.
I once met your mother.
He once lived in Zambia.
This book was famous once, but nobody reads it today.
He never once offered to help.
If she once decides to do something, you won't change her mind.
Once again the train was late.
Let me hear it just once more.
We need to settle this once and for all.
I don't know her well, I've only met her once or twice.
Once upon a time there was a beautiful princess.
We didn't know how we would cope once the money had gone.
The water is fine once you're in!
He's my cousin's son so he's my first cousin once removed.
Always walk facing the oncoming traffic.
Do you want one or two?
There's only room for one person.
One more, please!
a one-bedroomed apartment
I'll see you at one (= one o'clock).
It cost one hundred and fifty pounds.
He lost by less than one second.
There's only one thing we can do.
One of my friends lives in Brighton.
One place I'd really like to visit is Bali.
He's the one person I can trust.
Her one concern was for the health of her baby.
It's the one thing I can't stand about him.
I saw her one afternoon last week.
One day (= at some time in the future) you'll understand.
They all went off in one direction.
That was one hell of a game!
She's one snappy dresser.
He worked as an assistant to one Mr Ming.
Happy New Year to one and all!
I never realized Ruth Rendell and Barbara Vine were one and the same (= the same person using two different names).
I went through the items on the list one by one.
We've had one or two problems—nothing serious.
I don't like science fiction novels much. When you've read one, you've read them all.
I'd like an ice cream. Are you having one, too?
Our car's always breaking down. But we're getting a new one soon.
She was wearing her new dress, the red one.
My favourite band? Oh, that's a hard one (= a hard question).
What made you choose the one rather than the other?
(BrE) How about those ones over there?
'Did you get any postcards?' 'Yes, I bought four nice ones.'
'Here are the designs. Which (one) do you prefer?' 'I think that (one) looks the most original.'
Do you prefer these designs or those?
Our house is the one next to the school.
The students who are most successful are usually the ones who come to all the classes.
It's a present for one of my children.
We think of you as one of the family.
10 o'clock is too late for the little ones.
He ached to be home with his loved ones.
She was never one to criticize.
One should never criticize if one is not sure of one's facts.
One gets the impression that they disapprove.
Oh, you are a one!
Have you heard the one about the Englishman, the Irishman and the Scotsman?
We all try and help one another.
I think we've learned a lot about one another in this session.
He came out with some good one-liners.
a one-man show/business
a one-man tent
(figurative) He runs the business as a one-man band (= one person does everything).
I wanted it to be more than a one-night stand.
For her I was just a one-night stand.
a one-off payment
It was just a one-off; it won't happen again.
a one-piece swimsuit
The press were accused of presenting a very one-sided picture of the issue.
a totally one-sided match
a one-sided conversation (= in which one person talks most of the time)
a one-size-fits-all monetary policy
a one-star hotel
a one-star general
Our agency is a one-stop shop for all your travel needs.
her one-time best friend, Anna
a one-time fee of $500
a one-to-one meeting
There is no one-to-one correspondence between sounds and letters.
He teaches one-to-one.
They're playing some nice one-touch football.
This comedian is no one-trick pony.
one-way traffic
a one-way street
a one-way valve
Theirs was a one-way relationship (= one person made all the effort).
They observed the prisoners through a one-way mirror (= a mirror that allows a person standing behind it to see through it).
a one-woman show
One tries one's best.
a sense of oneness with the natural world
an onerous duty/task/responsibility
One has to ask oneself what the purpose of the exercise is.
One cannot choose freedom for oneself without choosing it for others.
It is difficult to make oneself concentrate for long periods.
One likes to do it oneself.
an ongoing debate/discussion/process
The police investigation is ongoing.
Chop the onions finely.
French onion soup
Online shopping is both cheap and convenient.
an online database
He spends hours playing online games.
The majority of small businesses now do their banking online.
What percentage of onliners use e-commerce?
an online dating service/site
What percentage of onliners use e-commerce?
A crowd of onlookers gathered at the scene of the crash.
I'm an only child.
We're only too pleased to help.
Bang and pop are onomatopoeic words.
the onset of disease/old age/winter
an onshore oil field
the enemy onslaught on our military forces
The town survives the onslaught of tourists every summer.
an onslaught of abuse
onstage fights
Move the books onto the second shelf.
She stepped down from the train onto the platform.
The window looked out onto the terrace.
a guide to creating a marketing ontology
The onus is on employers to follow health and safety laws.
Ticket prices include your flight and onward rail journey.
They lived there from the 1980s onwards.
The pool is open from 7 a.m. onwards.
We drove onwards towards the coast.
an oompah band
a styling product to give your hair more oomph
Oops! I almost spilled the wine.
Oops, I shouldn't have said that.
Blood oozed out of the wound.
an ugly swelling oozing with pus
The wound was oozing blood.
a plate of toast oozing butter
She walked into the party oozing confidence.
His voice oozed with sex appeal.
I'm going in for my op on Monday.
Webern's Five Pieces, Op. 10
an opal ring
opaque glass
opaque tights
The jargon in his talk was opaque to me.
A wasp flew in the open window.
She had left the door wide open.
She had difficulty keeping her eyes open (= because she was very tired).
He was breathing through his open mouth.
The flowers are all open now.
The book lay open on the table.
The pass is kept open all the year.
Leave the envelope open.
The bag burst open and everything fell out.
Her coat was open.
open country (= without forests, buildings, etc.)
a city with a lot of parks and open spaces
driving along the open road (= part of a road in the country, where you can drive fast)
an open drain
people working in the open air (= not in a building)
The hall of the old house was open to the sky.
an open wound (= with no skin covering it)
(NAmE) an open flame
Is the museum open on Sundays?
The new store will be open in the spring.
The house had been thrown open to the public.
I declare this festival open.
an open debate/championship/scholarship
She was tried in open court (= the public could go and listen to the trial).
The debate was thrown open to the audience.
The competition is open to young people under the age of 18.
The house is not open to the public.
What options are open to us?
Is the offer still open?
I want to keep my Swiss bank account open.
The system is open to abuse.
He has laid himself wide open to political attack.
an open quarrel
open government
their open display of affection
His eyes showed open admiration as he looked at her.
She was always open with her parents.
I'm open to suggestions for what you would like to do in our classes.
The race is still wide open (= anyone could win).
The price is not open to negotiation.
Some phrases in the contract are open to interpretation.
Which route is better remains an open question (= it is not decided).
In an interview try to ask open questions (= to which the answer is not just 'yes' or 'no').
an open weave
Mr Chen opened the car door for his wife.
The door opened and Alan walked in.
Shall I open another bottle?
He opened the letter and read it.
He hardly ever opens his mouth (= speaks).
Open your books at page 25.
What if the parachute doesn't open?
The flowers are starting to open.
Open the map on the table.
He opened his arms wide to embrace her.
When did the country open its borders?
The road will be opened again in a few hours after police have cleared it.
What time does the bank open?
The company opened its doors for business a month ago.
The new hospital opens on July 1st.
When does the play open?
You need just one pound to open a bank account with us.
The police have opened an investigation into the death.
Troops opened fire on (= started shooting) the crowds.
They will open the new season with a performance of 'Carmen'.
The story opens with a murder.
The bridge was opened by the Queen.
The street opened out into a small square.
Anti-aircraft guns opened up.
Open up or we'll break the door down!
It helps to discuss your problems but I find it hard to open up.
The railway opened up the east of the country.
Exciting possibilities were opening up for her in the new job.
I open up the store for the day at around 8.30.
There's a new Thai restaurant opening up in town.
A division has opened up between the two ministers over the issue.
Scott opened up a 3-point lead in the first game.
The wound opened up and started bleeding.
The operation will open up the blocked passages around his heart.
She laid the book flat and opened it up.
Children need to play out in the open.
Government officials do not want these comments in the open.
They intend to bring their complaints out into the open.
He likes to cook in the open air.
The government's policy is an open door to disaster.
An insecure computer system is an open door to criminals.
the country's open-door policy for refugees
We operate an open-door policy here, and are always willing to listen to our students' suggestions.
It's always open house at their place.
an open-line radio show
to buy/sell/trade on the open market
open-mike night
It seems to be open season on teachers now.
Academic success is not always an open sesame to a well-paid job.
The changes will give developers open slather.
an open-air swimming pool
The murder was an open-and-shut case.
an open-ended discussion
The contract is open-ended.
an open-handed host
an open-handed blow
an open-plan office
open-toed sandals
a can opener
a bottle-opener
They won the opener 4–2.
Jones scored the opener.
a good conversation opener
We could see the stars through an opening in the roof.
The movie has an exciting opening.
the opening of the Olympic Games
the official opening of the new hospital
the opening of a flower
the opening of the new play
Late opening of supermarkets is common in Britain now.
There are several openings in the sales department.
Winning the competition was the opening she needed for her career.
The skirt has a side opening.
his opening remarks
the opening chapter of the book
the opening up of new opportunities for women in business
the opening up of a new stretch of highway
Can you talk openly about sex with your parents?
The men in prison would never cry openly (= so that other people could see).
Puccini's operas
to go to the opera
an opera singer
light/grand opera
the Vienna State Opera
operatic arias/composers
When will the single currency be operable?
Most domestic freezers operate at below −18°C.
Solar panels can only operate in sunlight.
(figurative) Some people can only operate well under pressure.
What skills are needed to operate this machinery?
A new late-night service is now operating.
The regulation operates in favour of married couples.
The airline operates flights to 25 countries.
France operates a system of subsidized loans to dairy farmers.
They plan to operate from a new office in Edinburgh.
Illegal drinking clubs continue to operate in the city.
The doctors operated last night.
We will have to operate on his eyes.
Troops are operating from bases in the north.
a computer/machine operator
a tour operator
a bus operator
a smooth/slick/shrewd operator
The patient died on the operating table (= during an operation).
Will I need to have an operation?
He underwent a three-hour heart operation.
an operation on her lung to remove a tumour
Doctors performed an emergency operation for appendicitis last night.
a security operation
The police have launched a major operation against drug suppliers.
the UN peacekeeping operations
a huge multinational operation
the firm's banking operations overseas
The whole operation is performed in less than three seconds.
Regular servicing guarantees the smooth operation of the engine.
Operation of the device is extremely simple.
He was the officer in charge of operations.
It's time to put our plan into operation.
operational activities/costs/difficulties
The new airport is now fully operational.
operational headquarters
a factory operative
skilled/unskilled operatives
an intelligence operative
This law becomes operative immediately.
The station will be fully operative again in January.
operative treatment
I was in love with her—'was' being the operative word.
You'll have the opportunity to ask any questions at the end.
There was no opportunity for further discussion.
At least give him the opportunity of explaining what happened.
Our company promotes equal opportunities for women (= women are given the same jobs, pay, etc. as men).
career/employment/job opportunities
I'd like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for their support.
He is rude to me at every opportunity (= whenever possible).
They intend to close the school at the earliest opportunity (= as soon as possible).
a window of opportunity (= a period of time when the circumstances are right for doing sth)
ophthalmic surgery
He opined that Prague was the most beautiful city in Europe.
We were invited to give our opinions about how the work should be done.
I've recently changed my opinion of her.
Everyone had an opinion on the subject.
The chairman expressed the opinion that job losses were inevitable.
He has very strong political opinions.
In my opinion, it's a very sound investment.
(formal) It is our opinion that he should resign.
If you want my opinion, I think you'd be crazy not to accept.
In my opinion, everyone should have some understanding of science.
Everyone should, in my opinion, have some understanding of science.
It seems to me that many people in this country have a poor understanding of science.
This is, in my view, the result of a failure of the scientific community to get its message across.
Another reason why so many people have such a poor understanding of science is, I believe, the lack of adequate funding for science in schools.
Smith argues that science is separate from culture. My own view is that science belongs with literature, art, philosophy and religion as an integral part of our culture.
In this writer's opinion, the more the public know about science, the less they will fear and distrust it.
I would say it's OK in the city, but not in the country. What do you think?
My feeling is that we could improve our performance. Do you agree with that?
What would you say if we waited another month?
What about you? Do you cycle?
Which place do you think is more dangerous?
The traffic's going faster there, isn't it?/don't you think?
Would you say that traffic's going faster there?
So this would be a better option, right? (NAmE, informal)
legal/medical/political opinion (= the beliefs of people working in the legal, etc. profession)
There is a difference of opinion (= people disagree) as to the merits of the plan.
Opinion is divided (= people disagree) on the issue.
There is a wide body of opinion that supports this proposal.
Which is the better is a matter of opinion (= people have different opinions about it).
They called in a psychologist to give an independent opinion.
I'd like a second opinion (= advice from another person) before I make a decision.
The decision was based upon two considerations.
mile upon mile of dusty road
thousands upon thousands of letters
a political opponent
a dangerous/worthy/formidable opponent
The team's opponents are unbeaten so far this season.
opponents of abortion
opponents of the regime
Answers are given on the opposite page.
We live further down on the opposite side of the road.
It's not easy having a relationship when you live at opposite ends of the country.
I could see smoke coming from the windows of the house directly opposite.
He sat down in the chair opposite.
I watched them leave and then drove off in the opposite direction.
She tried calming him down but it seemed to be having the opposite effect.
students at opposite ends of the ability range
He found it difficult to talk to members of the opposite sex.
There's a newly married couple living opposite (= on the other side of the road).
See opposite (= on the opposite page) for further details.
Hot and cold are opposites.
What is the opposite of heavy?
I thought she would be small and blonde but she's the complete opposite.
Exactly the opposite is true.
'Is it better now?' ' Quite the opposite, I'm afraid.'
I sat opposite him during the meal (= on the other side of the table).
The bank is opposite the supermarket (= on the other side of the road).
Write your address opposite (= next to) your name.
She starred opposite Tom Hanks.
Delegates expressed strong opposition to the plans.
The army met with fierce opposition in every town.
He spent five years in prison for his opposition to the regime.
opposition forces (= people who are arguing, fighting, etc. with another group)
He's gone to work for the opposition.
The opposition is/are mounting a strong challenge to our business.
Liverpool couldn't match the opposition in the final and lost 2–0.
the leader of the Opposition
Opposition MPs/parties
the Opposition spokesman on education
the opposition between good and evil
His poetry is full of oppositions and contrasts.
oppositional groups/tactics
The offer could not have come at a more opportune moment.
an opportune remark
an opportunist crime
80% of burglaries are committed by casual opportunists.
an opportunistic infection
This party would bitterly oppose the re-introduction of the death penalty.
He threw all those that opposed him into prison.
I would oppose changing the law.
He intends to oppose the prime minister in the leadership election.
She remained bitterly opposed to the idea of moving abroad.
They are totally opposed to abortion.
Our views are diametrically opposed on this issue.
a player from the opposing side
It is time for opposing factions to unite and work towards a common goal.
The regime is accused of oppressing religious minorities.
The gloomy atmosphere in the office oppressed her.
victims of oppression
oppressed minorities
oppressive laws
an oppressive regime
oppressive heat
an oppressive relationship
to behave oppressively
oppressively hot
He suffered from an oppressively dominant mother.
the oppressiveness of the regime
the oppressiveness of the climate
the oppressiveness of life in a small town
an opprobrious remark
Many workers opted to leave their jobs rather than take a pay cut.
Employees may opt out of the company's pension plan.
an opt-out clause
MPs hoped to reverse Britain's opt-out from the treaty.
the optic nerve (= from the eye to the brain)
optical effects
optical aids
optical instruments such as microscopes and telescopes
optical storage
an optical disk
to go to the optician's
optimum growth
the optimum use of resources
the optimum conditions for effective learning
to optimize the use of resources
It is important that websites are optimized for mobile devices.
optimism about/for the future
We may now look forward with optimism.
a mood of cautious optimism
There are very real grounds for optimism.
She's not very optimistic about the outcome of the talks.
They are cautiously optimistic that the reforms will take place.
We are now taking a more optimistic view.
in an optimistic mood
I think you're being a little over-optimistic.
There are various options open to you.
Going to college was not an option for me.
I had no option but to (= I had to) ask him to leave.
A savings plan that gives you the option to vary your monthly payments.
This particular model comes with a wide range of options (= things you can choose to have when buying sth but which you will have to pay extra for).
The course offers options in design and computing.
We have an option on the house.
He has promised me first option on his car (= the opportunity to buy it before anyone else).
The property is for rent with an option to buy at any time.
share options (= the right to buy shares in a company)
Choose the 'Cut' option from the Edit menu.
The novel has been optioned for the screen by his production company.
Certain courses are compulsory; others are optional.
This model comes with a number of optional extras (= things you can choose to have but which you will have to pay extra for).
Beethoven's Opus 18
Is your sister older or younger than you?
Are you coming or not?
Is it a boy or a girl?
It can be black, white or grey.
He can't read or write.
There are people without homes, jobs or family.
Turn the heat down or it'll burn.
There were six or seven of us there.
geology, or the science of the earth's crust
It weighs a kilo, or just over two pounds.
He must like her, or he wouldn't keep calling her.
He was lying—or was he?
It'll cost €100 or so.
He's a factory supervisor or something.
'Who said so?' 'Oh, somebody or other. I can't remember who it was.'
It was necessary to discover the truth or otherwise of these statements.
We insure against all damage, accidental or otherwise.
Is he stupid or what?
I don't know if he's a teacher or what.
Are we going now or what?
It's the same in any situation: in a prison, hospital or whatever.
tourists from Spain, France or wherever
They consulted the oracle at Delphi.
My sister's the oracle on investment matters.
a test of both oral and written French
oral evidence
He was interested in oral history (= history that is collected from interviews with people who have personal knowledge of past events).
an exam in spoken English
There will be a test of both oral and written French.
spoken/oral French
a spoken/oral presentation
vocal music
the vocal organs(= the tongue, lips, etc.)
oral hygiene
oral sex (= using the mouth to stimulate sb's sex organs)
Answers can be written or presented orally on tape.
Not to be taken orally (= a warning on some medicines to show that they must not be swallowed).
a French oral
He failed the oral.
orange peel
an orange tree
freshly squeezed orange juice
orange groves (= groups of orange trees)
orange blossom
Would you like some orange?
A vodka and orange, please.
yellow and orange flames
an Orange march
a bottle of orange squash
Two orange squashes, please.
a fine political orator
oratorical skills
the earth's orbit around the sun
a space station in orbit round the moon
A new satellite has been put into orbit around the earth.
to come/fall/be within sb's orbit
The earth takes a year to orbit the sun.
the M25 London orbital
She plays the flute in the school orchestra.
the Scottish Symphony Orchestra
orchestral music
a carefully orchestrated publicity campaign
He was ordained (as) a priest last year.
Fate had ordained that they would never meet again.
They are to be spared the ordeal of giving evidence in court.
The hostages spoke openly about the terrible ordeal they had been through.
The interview was less of an ordeal than she'd expected.
The names are listed in alphabetical order.
in chronological/numerical order
arranged in order of priority/importance/size
The results, ranked in descending/ascending order, are as follows:
All the procedures must be done in the correct order.
Let's take the problems in a different order.
It was time she put her life in order.
The house had been kept in good order.
Get your ideas into some sort of order before beginning to write.
It is one of the functions of art to bring order out of chaos.
The army has been sent in to maintain order in the capital.
Some teachers find it difficult to keep their classes in order.
The police are trying to restore public order.
The argument continued until the chairman called them both to order (= ordered them to obey the formal rules of the meeting).
He gave orders for the work to be started.
The general gave the order to advance.
I'm under orders not to let anyone in.
She takes orders only from the president.
Dogs can be trained to obey orders.
(informal) No sugar for me— doctor's orders.
Interest rates can be controlled by order of the central bank.
I would like to place an order for ten copies of this book.
an order form
The machine parts are still on order (= they have been ordered but have not yet been received).
These items can be made to order (= produced especially for a particular customer).
The stationery order has arrived.
May I take your order?
Last orders at the bar now please!(= because the bar is going to close)
an order for steak and fries
a side order (= for example, vegetables or salad that you eat with your main dish)
a change in the political and social order
the natural order of things
He was seen as a threat to the established order.
A new order seems to be emerging.
the lower orders
the order of primates
religious orders
the Benedictine order
The Order of the Garter is an ancient order of chivalry.
the Ancient Order of Druids
The phone is out of order.
I checked the files and some of the papers were out of order.
You were well out of order taking it without asking.
His objection was ruled out of order.
The company was ordered to pay compensation to its former employees.
The officer ordered them to fire.
They were ordered out of the class for fighting.
The government has ordered an investigation into the accident.
They ordered that for every tree cut down two more be planted.
(BrE also ) They ordered that for every tree cut down two more should be planted.
'Sit down and be quiet,' she ordered.
Could you wait here for a moment, please?
Would you come through now?/ You can come through now.
Can you send it up to my room, please?
Just sign here for me, please.
I need you to finish the report by Friday.
Everyone has to use the side entrance this week.
You have to sign these reports before submitting them.
These boots can be ordered direct from the manufacturer.
Shall I order you a taxi?
Shall I order a taxi for you?
I ordered a beer and a sandwich.
Have you ordered yet?
He ordered himself a double whisky.
Will you order for me while I make a phone call?
I need time to order my thoughts.
We have a full order book for the coming year.
The actual measurement is two orders of magnitude (= a hundred times) greater than we expected.
(figurative) The problem is of the same order of magnitude for all concerned.
an ordered existence
a well-ordered society
Many possible orderings may exist.
the successful ordering of complex data
a calm and orderly life
vegetables planted in orderly rows
an orderly demonstration
an ordinary sort of day
in the ordinary course of events
ordinary people like you and me
This was no ordinary meeting.
The meal was very ordinary.
I'm looking for something a little more out of the ordinary.
To the untrained eye, the children were behaving ordinarily.
Ordinarily, she wouldn't have bothered arguing with him.
We do not ordinarily carry out this type of work.
an ordnance depot
iron ore
to work for a business/political/voluntary organization
the World Health Organization
He's the president of a large international organization.
I leave most of the organization of these conferences to my assistant.
The report studies the organization of labour within the company.
She is highly intelligent but her work lacks organization.
organizational skills
organizational change
to organize a meeting/party/trip
I'll invite people if you can organize food and drinks.
Modern computers can organize large amounts of data very quickly.
You should try and organize your time better.
We do not fully understand how the brain is organized.
I'm sure you don't need me to organize you.
the right of workers to organize themselves into unions
the organizers of the festival
the internal organs
the sense organs (= the eyes, ears, nose, etc.)
the sexual/reproductive organs
an organ transplant/donor
the male organ
She plays the organ in church.
organ music
an electric organ
the organs of government
The People's Daily is the official organ of the Chinese Communist Party.
(humorous) He's only the organ grinder's monkey (= an unimportant person who does what he is told to do).
organic cheese/vegetables/wine, etc.
an organic farmer/gardener
organic farming/horticulture
Improve the soil by adding organic matter.
organic compounds
organic disease
the view of society as an organic whole
the organic growth of foreign markets
organically grown fruit
The cardboard disintegrates organically.
Doctors could find nothing organically wrong with her.
The organization should be allowed to develop organically.
the social organism (= society)
an organized body of workers
organized religion (= traditional religion followed by large numbers of people who obey a fixed set of rules)
organized crime (= committed by professional criminals working in large groups)
a carefully organized campaign
a well-organized office
a very organized person
Isn't it time you started to get organized?
to achieve/reach orgasm
to have an orgasm
a drunken orgy
The rebels went on an orgy of killing.
The room still has many of its original features.
I think you should go back to your original plan.
an original idea
That's not a very original suggestion.
an original thinker
an original painting by local artist Graham Tovey
The original manuscript has been lost.
Only original documents (= not photocopies) will be accepted as proof of status.
This painting is a copy; the original is in Madrid.
Send out the photocopies and keep the original.
The school was originally very small.
She comes originally from York.
Originally, we had intended to go to Italy, but then we won the trip to Greece.
The disease is thought to have originated in the tropics.
Locke originated this theory in the 17th century.
an oriel window
Our students are oriented towards science subjects.
policies oriented to the needs of working mothers
We run a commercially oriented operation.
profit-orientated organizations
Neither of them is politically oriented (= interested in politics).
The mountaineers found it hard to orient themselves in the fog.
It took him some time to orient himself in his new school.
oriental languages
The course is essentially theoretical in orientation.
Companies have been forced into a greater orientation to the market.
religious/political orientation
a person's sexual orientation (= whether they are attracted to men, women or both)
an orientation course
The orientation of the planet's orbit is changing continuously.
the nasal orifice
the origins of life on earth
Most coughs are viral in origin (= caused by a virus).
The origin of the word remains obscure.
This particular custom has its origins in Wales.
She has risen from humble origins to immense wealth.
children of various ethnic origins
people of German origin
a person's country of origin (= where they were born)
This latest collection lacks style and originality.
a china/glass ornament
(BrE, NAmE) Christmas tree ornaments
The clock is simply for ornament; it doesn't work any more.
The building is an ornament to the city.
a room richly ornamented with carving
an ornamental fountain
The chimney pots are purely ornamental.
a mirror in an ornate gold frame
ornately carved chairs
He was an orphan and lived with his uncle.
orphan boys/girls
She was orphaned in the war.
orthodox
orthography
orthodontic treatment
orthodox medicine
an orthodox Jew
an economist arguing against the current financial orthodoxy
an orthopaedic surgeon/hospital
The movie was nominated for an Oscar.
an Oscar nomination/winner
Her moods oscillated between depression and elation.
Watch how the needle on the dial oscillates.
the oscillation of the compass needle
the economy's continual oscillation between growth and recession
the oscillations of the pound against foreign currency
his oscillation, as a teenager, between science and art
Water passes into the roots of a plant by osmosis.
osmotic pressure
an ossified political system
The ostensible reason for his absence was illness.
Troops were sent in, ostensibly to protect the civilian population.
He gave an ostentatious yawn.
ostentatiously dressed
osteopath
He was ostracized by his colleagues for refusing to support the strike.
OTC medicines and food supplements
OTC trading of securities
Mr Harris and Mrs Bate and three other teachers were there.
Are there any other questions?
I can't see you now— some other time, maybe.
Two buildings were destroyed and many others damaged in the blast.
This option is preferable to any other.
Some designs are better than others.
My other sister is a doctor.
One son went to live in Australia and the other one was killed in a car crash.
He raised one arm and then the other.
You must ask one or other of your parents.
I'll wear my other shoes—these are dirty.
'I like this one.' 'What about the other ones?'
I went swimming while the others played tennis.
I work on the other side of town.
He crashed into a car coming the other way.
He found me, not the other way round/around.
I don't know any French people other than you.
We're going away in June but other than that I'll be here all summer.
I have never known him to behave other than selfishly.
the otherness of an alien culture
My parents lent me the money. Otherwise, I couldn't have afforded the trip.
Shut the window, otherwise it'll get too cold in here.
We're committed to the project. We wouldn't be here otherwise.
There was some music playing upstairs. Otherwise the house was silent.
He was slightly bruised but otherwise unhurt.
Bismarck, otherwise known as 'the Iron Chancellor'
It is not permitted to sell or otherwise distribute copies of past examination papers.
You know what this is about. Why pretend otherwise (= that you do not)?
I wanted to see him but he was otherwise engaged (= doing sth else).
an otiose round of meetings
Her make-up was a bit OTT.
Ouch! That hurt!
They ought to apologize.
'Ought I to write to say thank you?' 'Yes, I think you ought (to).'
They ought to have apologized (= but they didn't).
Such things ought not to be allowed.
He oughtn't to have been driving so fast.
Children ought to be able to read by the age of 7.
Nurses ought to earn more.
We ought to be leaving now.
This is delicious. You ought to try some.
You ought to have come to the meeting. It was interesting.
If he started out at nine, he ought to be here by now.
That ought to be enough food for the four of us.
Oughtn't the water to have boiled by now?
There's not an ounce of truth in her story.
our daughter/dog/house
We showed them some of our photos.
Our main export is rice.
And now, over to our Rome correspondent…
Our Father (= God)
Our Lady (= the Virgin Mary)
Their house is very similar to ours, but ours is bigger.
No, those are Ellie's kids. Ours are upstairs.
He's a friend of ours.
Do you fancy coming to ours for Sunday dinner?
We shouldn't blame ourselves for what happened.
Let's just relax and enjoy ourselves.
We'd like to see it for ourselves.
We've often thought of going there ourselves.
The only people there were ourselves.
He was ousted as chairman.
The rebels finally managed to oust the government from power.
an outstanding player/achievement/success
an area of outstanding natural beauty
the outstanding features of the landscape
She has outstanding debts of over £500.
A lot of work is still outstanding.
the president's ouster by the military
The outside of the house needs painting.
You can't open the door from the outside.
I walked around the outside of the building.
I didn't go into the temple—I only saw it from the outside.
Always overtake on the outside.
The outside walls are damp.
an outside toilet
You have to pay to make outside calls.
I can't get an outside line.
We plan to use an outside firm of consultants.
She has a lot of outside interests (= not connected with her work).
They felt cut off from the outside world (= from other people and from other things that were happening).
They have only an outside chance of winning.
150 is an outside estimate (= it is very likely to be less).
You can park your car outside our house.
It's the biggest theme park outside the United States.
We live in a small village just outside Leeds.
The matter is outside my area of responsibility.
You may do as you wish outside working hours.
There was nothing they could do, outside of hoping things would get better.
I'm seeing a patient—please wait outside.
The house is painted green outside.
It's warm enough to eat outside.
Go outside and see if it's raining.
She ran out into the corridor.
She shook the bag and some coins fell out.
I got out of bed.
He opened the box and out jumped a frog.
Out you go! (= used to order sb to leave a room)
(informal) He ran out the door.
I called Liz but she was out.
Let's go out this evening (= for example to a restaurant or club).
We haven't had a night out for weeks.
Mr Green is out of town this week.
The boy dashed out into the road.
Don't lean out of the window.
She's working out in Australia.
He lives right out in the country.
The boats are all out at sea.
The ship sank ten miles out of Stockholm.
This detergent is good for getting stains out.
We want this government out.
He got thrown out of the restaurant.
He drank his beer out of the bottle.
a statue made out of bronze
a romance straight out of a fairy tale
I paid for the damage out of my savings.
We'll get the truth out of her.
We're out of milk.
He's been out of work for six months.
You're out of luck —she left ten minutes ago.
Try and stay out of trouble.
I watched the car until it was out of sight.
It was an awful job and I'm glad to be out of it.
He gets out of the army in a few weeks.
They'll be out (= of prison) on bail in no time.
Brown goes on to the semi-finals but Lee is out.
I asked out of curiosity.
She did it out of spite.
You scored six out of ten.
Two out of three people think the President should resign.
The book you wanted is out on loan.
I like walking on the wet sand when the tide is out.
There should be some snowdrops out by now.
When does her new book come out?
Word always gets out (= people find out about things) no matter how careful you are.
Out with it!(= say what you know)
to call/cry/shout out
Read it out loud.
Nobody spoke out in his defence.
I had been out since I was 17.
The West Indies were all out for 364 (= after scoring 364 runs in cricket ).
The umpire said the ball was out.
I was slightly out in my calculations.
Your guess was a long way out (= completely wrong).
The estimate was out by more than $100.
Swimming is out until the weather gets warmer.
Black is out this year.
Suddenly all the lights went out.
The fire had burnt itself out.
It was summer and school was out.
She was to regret her words before the day was out.
He was out for more than an hour and came round in the hospital.
She was knocked out cold.
Hear me out before you say anything.
We left them to fight it out (= settle a disagreement by fighting or arguing).
We've only just moved here so we feel a little out of it.
She was desperately looking for an out.
an out gay man
He is the latest politician to be outed by gay activists.
The man who claimed to have found the diaries has been outed as a fraud.
They earn salaries out of all proportion to their ability.
The media have blown the incident up out of all proportion.
These figures are very out of date.
Suddenly she felt old and out of date.
an out-of-date map
out-of-date technology
an out-of-date driving licence
Some of these files seem to be out of place.
Her remarks were out of place.
I felt completely out of place among all these successful people.
The cat stayed well out of range of the children.
Hotels are cheaper out of season.
The wheel had been twisted out of shape.
She was tired and out of sorts by the time she arrived home.
Another trip abroad this year is out of the question.
The meal was out of this world.
The system is clearly out of whack.
All the traveling had thrown my body out of whack.
Expectations and reality got out of whack.
She fell overboard and was swept out to sea.
outnumber
outwit
outgrow
outlive
outbuildings
outpatient
outlying
outgoing
What she said was an out-and-out lie.
On business trips she has some travel and other out-of-pocket expenses.
out-of-state license plates
a little out-of-the-way place on the coast
out-of-town superstores
an out-of-town guest
an out-of-town performance
an out-of-work actor
Wow, this is such an out-there character. This role is definitely going to be cool.
It may be totally out-there but I think it could work.
a power outage
outbound flights/passengers
the outbreak of war
an outbreak of typhoid
Outbreaks of rain are expected in the afternoon.
an outburst of anger
She was alarmed by his violent outburst.
an outburst of racism
People with the disease were often treated as social outcasts.
Kennedy was outclassed 0–6 0–6 in the final.
These costs are payable whatever the outcome of the case.
We are confident of a successful outcome.
Four possible outcomes have been identified.
an outcry over the proposed change
The new tax provoked a public outcry.
There was outcry at the judge's statement.
outdated equipment
These figures are now outdated.
Sometimes small firms can outdo big business when it comes to customer care.
Not to be outdone (= not wanting to let sb else do better), she tried again.
outdoor clothing/activities
an outdoor swimming pool
I'm not really the outdoor type (= I prefer indoor activities).
The rain prevented them from eating outdoors.
They both have a love of the outdoors.
Come to Canada and enjoy the great outdoors.
the outer layers of the skin
I walked along the outer edge of the track.
the outer suburbs of the city
Outer London
(figurative) to explore the outer (= most extreme) limits of human experience
radio waves from outer space
the outermost planet
He fired and hit the outermost ring of the target.
a sewage outfall
She was wearing an expensive new outfit.
a wedding outfit
a cowboy/Superman outfit (= one that you wear for fun in order to look like the type of person mentioned)
a market research outfit
This was the fourth album by the top rock outfit.
a bicycle repair outfit
The ship was outfitted with a 12-bed hospital.
There was a capital outflow of $22 billion in 2008.
a steady outflow of oil from the tank
the outflow of refugees
an outgoing personality
the outgoing president/government
This telephone should be used for outgoing calls.
outgoing flights/passengers
the outgoing tide
low/high outgoings
Write down your incomings and outgoings.
She's already outgrown her school uniform.
The company has outgrown its offices.
He's already outgrown his older brother.
He's outgrown his passion for rock music.
The eye first appears as a cup-shaped outgrowth from the brain.
The law was an outgrowth of the 2008 presidential election.
The England team was completely outgunned.
We went on an outing to London.
a family outing
outlandish costumes/ideas
He can outlast anyone on the dance floor.
plans to outlaw the carrying of knives
the outlawed nationalist party
Robin Hood, the world's most famous outlaw
The business quickly repaid the initial outlay on advertising.
a massive financial/capital outlay
outlying areas
She needed to find an outlet for her many talents and interests.
Sport became the perfect outlet for his aggression.
The business has 34 retail outlets in this state alone.
the Nike outlet in the outlet mall
a sewage outlet
an outlet pipe
We outlined our proposals to the committee.
They saw the huge building outlined against the sky.
This is a brief outline of the events.
You should draw up a plan or outline for the essay.
The book describes in outline the main findings of the research.
an outline agreement/proposal
At last we could see the dim outline of an island.
an outline map/sketch
She drew the figures in outline.
He outlived his wife by three years.
The machine had outlived its usefulness (= was no longer useful).
He had a practical outlook on life.
Most Western societies are liberal in outlook.
The outlook for jobs is bleak.
the country's economic outlook
The outlook (= the probable weather) for the weekend is dry and sunny.
The house has a pleasant outlook over the valley.
The president has so far managed to outmanoeuvre his critics.
an outmoded attitude
The demonstrators were heavily outnumbered by the police.
In this profession, women outnumber men by two to one (= there are twice as many women as men).
He easily outpaced the other runners.
Demand is outpacing production.
an outpatient clinic
We were totally outplayed and lost 106–74.
a remote outpost
the last outpost of civilization
spontaneous outpourings of praise
a remarkable outpouring of new ideas
Manufacturing output has increased by 8%.
data output
an output device
an output of 100 watts
Connect a cable to the output.
Computers can now output data much more quickly.
The judge's remarks caused public outrage.
Environmentalists have expressed outrage at the ruling.
No one has yet claimed responsibility for this latest bomb outrage.
He was outraged at the way he had been treated.
outrageous behaviour
'That's outrageous!' he protested.
She says the most outrageous things sometimes.
outrageous clothes
an outrageously expensive meal
They behaved outrageously.
an outreach and education programme
outreach workers
efforts to expand the outreach to black voters
an outright ban/rejection/victory
She was the outright winner.
No one party is expected to gain an outright majority.
There was outright opposition to the plan.
Why don't you ask him outright if it's true?
She couldn't help herself and she laughed outright.
Neither candidate won outright.
The group rejects outright any negotiations with the government.
Most of the crash victims were killed outright.
We had saved enough money to buy the house outright.
He couldn't outrun his pursuers.
Demand for the new model is outrunning supply.
We are now outselling all our competitors.
This year the newspaper has outsold its main rival.
Here she felt she would always be an outsider.
They have decided to hire outsiders for some of the key positions.
To an outsider it may appear to be a glamorous job.
The race was won by a 20–1 outsider.
To everyone's surprise, the post went to a rank outsider (= a complete outsider ).
an outsize desk
outsize clothes
They live on the outskirts of Milan.
She always managed to outsmart her political rivals.
We outsource all our computing work.
an outspoken opponent of the leader
outspoken comments
She was outspoken in her criticism of the plan.
The bird soared high, with outspread wings.
outstandingly successful
He performed well but not outstandingly.
The business school has accommodation for outstation students.
He ran towards her with arms outstretched/with outstretched arms.
Demand is outstripping supply.
Their latest computer outstrips all its rivals.
I'm outta here!(= I'm leaving now.)
His proposal was outvoted by 10 votes to 8.
Mark showed no outward signs of distress.
She simply observes the outward forms of religion.
To all outward appearances (= as far as it was possible to judge from the outside) they were perfectly happy.
the outward voyage/journey
outward movement
outward investment (= in other countries)
Managers need to become more outward-looking (= more open to new ideas).
Though badly frightened, she remained outwardly composed.
Outwardly, the couple seemed perfectly happy.
The door opens outwards.
Factories were spreading outwards from the old heart of the town.
The advantages far outweigh the disadvantages.
Somehow he always manages to outwit his opponents.
outworn institutions
an oval face
Congress is waiting to see how the Oval Office will react.
ovarian cancer
to give sb a huge/rapturous/rousing ovation
The soloist got a ten-minute standing ovation (= in which people stand up from their seats).
Take the cake out of the oven.
a gas/an electric oven
a cool/hot/moderate oven
Open a window, it's like an oven in here!
an ovenproof dish
Try not to knock that vase over.
The wind must have blown it over.
She turned over onto her front.
The car skidded off the road and rolled over and over.
I stopped and crossed over.
He rowed us over to the other side of the lake.
They have gone over to France.
This is my aunt who's over from Canada.
I went over (= across the room) and asked her name.
Put it down over there.
The lake was frozen over.
Cover her over with a blanket.
children of 14 and over
You get an A grade for scores of 75 and over.
If there's any food left over, put it in the fridge.
He repeated it several times over until he could remember it.
(NAmE) It's all wrong—you'll have to do it over.
By the time we arrived the meeting was over.
Thank goodness that's over!
I was glad when it was over and done with.
He's gone over to the enemy (= joined them).
Please change the wheels over (= for example, put the front wheels at the back).
Let's ask some friends over (= to our home).
Hand over the money!
Message received. Over (= it is your turn to speak).
Message understood. Over and out.
I've told you over and over again not to do that.
She put a blanket over the sleeping child.
He wore an overcoat over his suit.
She put her hand over her mouth to stop herself from screaming.
They held a large umbrella over her.
The balcony juts out over the street.
There was a lamp hanging over the table.
a bridge over the river
They ran over the grass.
They had a wonderful view over the park.
He lives over the road.
She climbed over the wall.
The car had toppled over the cliff.
He didn't dare look over the edge.
Snow is falling all over the country.
They've travelled all over the world.
There were papers lying around all over the place.
over 3 million copies sold
She stayed in Lagos for over a month.
He's over sixty.
She has only the director over her.
He ruled over a great empire.
She has editorial control over what is included.
We'll discuss it over lunch.
Over the next few days they got to know the town well.
She has not changed much over the years.
He built up the business over a period of ten years.
We're away over (= until after) the New Year.
We're over the worst of the recession.
It took her ages to get over her illness.
an argument over money
a disagreement over the best way to proceed
We heard it over the radio.
She wouldn't tell me over the phone.
I couldn't hear what he said over the noise of the traffic.
His performance is completely over the top.
an over-the-top reaction
overproduction
overload
over-optimistic
overconfident
overanxious
overjoyed
overcoat
overtime
overcast
overhang
If you're telling lies, keep it simple—never over-egg the pudding.
I'm not over-optimistic about my chances of getting the job.
The sales forecasts turned out to be over-optimistic.
an overactive thyroid
She suffers from an overactive imagination.
the person with overall responsibility for the project
There will be winners in each of three age groups, and one overall winner.
an overall improvement in standards of living (= affecting everyone)
When she finished painting, she stepped back to admire the overall effect.
The company will invest $1.6m overall in new equipment.
Overall, this is a very useful book.
The lab assistant was wearing a white overall.
The mechanic was wearing a pair of blue overalls.
a huge 101-seat overall majority
Her plans were overambitious.
an overarm throw
In my opinion, Hirst's work has been vastly overrated.
He overbalanced and fell into the water.
an overbearing manner
to fall/jump overboard
Huge waves washed him overboard.
The flight was heavily overbooked.
an overcast sky/day
Today it will be dull and overcast.
Make sure they don't overcharge you for the drinks.
We were overcharged by £5.
She overcame injury to win the Olympic gold medal.
The two parties managed to overcome their differences on the issue.
In the final game Sweden easily overcame France.
Her parents were overcome with grief at the funeral.
The dead woman had been overcome by smoke.
She overcompensated for her shyness by talking too much and laughing too loud.
overcrowded cities/prisons
Too many poor people are living in overcrowded conditions.
overdeveloped muscles
an overdeveloped sense of humour
She really overdid the sympathy (= and so did not seem sincere).
Don't overdo the salt in the food.
Use illustrations where appropriate but don't overdo it.
The fish was overdone and very dry.
political leaders who support the interests of the overdog
a drug/drugs overdose
She took a massive overdose of sleeping pills.
He had overdosed on heroin.
(figurative) I had overdosed on sun.
to run up/pay off an overdraft
Customers who overdraw their accounts will be charged a fee.
I'm overdrawn by £100.
an overdrawn account
Your account is £200 overdrawn.
to be in overdrive
an overdue payment/library book
The rent is now overdue.
Her baby is two weeks overdue.
This car is overdue for a service.
overdue reforms
A book like this is long overdue.
She went through periods of compulsive overeating.
an overemphasis on curing illness rather than preventing it
The importance of preparation cannot be overemphasized.
They overestimated his ability when they promoted him.
The importance of these findings cannot be overestimated (= is very great).
Don't get the children overexcited just before bedtime.
The club is careful not to let the younger players be overexposed, and rarely allows them to be interviewed.
They should not overextend themselves on the mortgage.
We overflew the war zone, taking photographs.
the noise from overflying planes
The bath is overflowing
Plates overflowed with party food.
(figurative) Her heart overflowed with love.
The river overflowed its banks.
The streets were overflowing with the crowds.
The hospitals are filled to overflowing (= with patients).
The meeting overflowed into the street.
A new office block was built to accommodate the overflow of staff.
an overflow car park
an overflow of water from the lake
(figurative) an overflow of powerful emotions
She is not overgenerous with praise.
The new railway line will run overground.
overground trains
an overgrown path
The garden's completely overgrown with weeds.
an overgrown village
They act like a pair of overgrown children (= they are adults but they behave like children).
His big fat belly overhung his belt.
The path was cool and dark with overhanging trees.
The roof has an overhang to protect the walls from the rain.
attempts to reduce the overhang of unsold goods
an overhasty decision
We were overhasty in making the choice.
a complete/major overhaul
A radical overhaul of the tax system is necessary.
The engine has been completely overhauled.
He managed to overhaul the leader on the final lap.
Planes flew overhead constantly.
Thunder boomed in the sky overhead.
overhead power lines
overhead costs
We talked quietly so as not to be overheard.
I overheard a conversation between two boys on the bus.
We overheard them arguing.
I overheard him say he was going to France.
The engine is overheating.
It's vital not to overheat the liquid.
Don't sleep in an overheated room.
the figment of an overheated imagination
The chairman overrode the committee's objections and signed the agreement.
Considerations of safety override all other concerns.
A special code is needed to override the time lock.
His mother overindulged him.
overinflated house prices
Overinflated tyres burst more easily.
He was overjoyed at my success.
We were overjoyed to hear their good news.
She was overjoyed that her article had been published.
There is a danger of overkill if you plan everything too carefully.
overlying rock
an overland route
to travel overland
A fish's scales overlap each other.
The floor was protected with overlapping sheets of newspaper.
You will need to overlap the pieces of wood slightly.
Our jobs overlap slightly, which sometimes causes difficulties.
The language of science overlaps with that of everyday life.
There is (a) considerable overlap between the two subjects.
an overlap of 5 cm on each roof tile
There will be an overlap of a week while John teaches Ann the job.
wood overlaid with gold
The place was overlaid with memories of his childhood.
An overlay showing population can be placed on top of the map.
an overlay of fibreglass insulation
Complete the form overleaf.
The changes are explained in detail overleaf.
an overloaded truck
He's overloaded with responsibilities.
Don't overload the students with information.
In these days of technological change we all suffer from information overload.
an overlong agenda
He seems to have overlooked one important fact.
We could not afford to overlook such a serious offence.
a restaurant overlooking the lake
Our back yard is overlooked by several houses.
She's been overlooked for promotion several times.
feudal overlords
I'm not overly fond of pasta.
We think you are being overly optimistic.
the problems of overmanning in industry
She didn't worry overmuch about it.
We stayed overnight in London after the theatre.
Don't expect it to improve overnight.
an overnight flight
overnight accommodation
She took only an overnight bag (= containing the things needed for a night spent away from home).
The play was an overnight success.
the problems of overpopulation
Police finally managed to overpower the gunman.
Her beauty overpowered him.
The flavour of the garlic overpowered the meat.
an overpowering smell of fish
an overpowering personality
The heat was overpowering.
overprotective parents
In making these promises, the company had clearly overreached itself.
The financial markets overreacted to the news.
the overriding factor/consideration/concern
Their overriding aim was to keep costs low.
overripe fruit
to overrule a decision/an objection
The verdict was overruled by the Supreme Court.
The house was completely overrun with mice.
Enemy soldiers had overrun the island.
Her lectures never overrun.
You've overrun your time by 10 minutes.
a cost overrun
overseas development/markets/trade
overseas students/visitors
to live/work/go overseas
The product is sold both at home and overseas.
He has a tendency to oversell himself.
The seats on the plane were oversold.
He had always been overshadowed by his elder sister.
News of the accident overshadowed the day's events.
The garden is overshadowed by tall trees.
Her tendency to overshare is sometimes embarrassing!
The aircraft overshot the runway.
She had overshot by 20 metres.
The department may overshoot its cash limit this year.
I didn't mean to leave her name off the list; it was an oversight.
The committee has oversight of finance and general policy.
It's easy to oversimplify the issues involved.
an oversimplified view of human nature
This is a gross oversimplification of the facts.
I overslept and missed the bus.
The company has overspent on marketing.
Many departments have overspent their budgets this year.
a £1 million overspend
The organization is heavily overspent.
New towns were designed to house London's overspill.
He tends to overstate his case when talking politics.
The seriousness of the crime cannot be overstated.
It is not an overstatement to say a crisis is imminent.
They overstayed their visa.
to overstep your authority
He tends to overstep the boundaries of good taste.
This will overstretch the prison service's resources.
Credit cards can tempt you to overstretch yourself (= spend more money than you can afford).
overstretched muscles
overstretched services
There was little overt support for the project.
overtly political activities
He pulled out to overtake a truck.
It's dangerous to overtake on a bend.
Nuclear energy may overtake oil as the main fuel.
We mustn't let ourselves be overtaken by our competitors.
The climbers were overtaken by bad weather.
Sudden panic overtook her.
Our original plan was overtaken by events (= the situation changed very rapidly) and we had to make a new one.
to overtax your strength
Take it easy. Don't overtax yourself.
He has a tendency to overthink things.
The president was overthrown in a military coup.
to do/work overtime
overtime pay/earnings/hours
The union announced a ban on overtime.
They pay $150 a day plus overtime.
There were political overtones to the point he was making.
Prokofiev's overture to 'Romeo and Juliet'
He began making overtures to a number of merchant banks.
The car skidded and overturned.
He stood up quickly, overturning his chair.
to overturn a decision/conviction/verdict
His sentence was overturned by the appeal court.
'Nice' is a very overused word.
Intelligence cannot be overvalued.
(business 商业) overvalued currencies/stocks
She was only a few pounds overweight.
overweight baggage
The evidence against him was overwhelming.
The overwhelming majority of those present were in favour of the plan.
an overwhelming sense of loss
She had the almost overwhelming desire to tell him the truth.
You may find it somewhat overwhelming at first.
They voted overwhelmingly against the proposal.
She was overwhelmed by feelings of guilt.
The beauty of the landscape overwhelmed me.
The army was overwhelmed by the rebels.
We were overwhelmed by requests for information.
You look tired. Have you been overworking?
She overworks her staff.
His illness was brought on by money worries and overwork.
overworked nurses
An overzealous fan ran onto the stage during the concert.
methods of predicting ovulation
Ow! That hurt!
She still owes her father £3 000.
(figurative) I'm still owed three days' leave.
How much do I owe you for the groceries?
She still owes £3 000 to her father
The country owes billions of dollars to foreign creditors.
I owe a debt of gratitude to all my family.
You owe it to your staff to be honest with them.
You owe me a favour!
Thanks for sticking up for me—I owe you one (= I owe you a favour).
I think you owe us an explanation.
I think we're owed an apology.
He owes his success to hard work.
The play owes much to French tragedy.
I owe everything to him.
I owe him everything.
I knew that I owed the surgeon my life.
£100 is still owing on the loan.
The game was cancelled owing to torrential rain.
An owl hooted nearby.
She blinked at them owlishly.
It was her own idea.
I saw it with my own eyes (= I didn't hear about it from somebody else).
Is the car your own?
Your day off is your own (= you can spend it as you wish).
Our children are grown up and have children of their own.
For reasons of his own (= particular reasons that perhaps only he knew about), he refused to join the club.
The accident happened through no fault of her own.
He wants to come into the business on his own terms.
I need a room of my own.
I have my very own room at last.
I need my own room.
It's good to have your own room.
She makes all her own clothes.
He has to cook his own meals.
Do you own your house or do you rent it?
I don't own anything of any value.
Most of the apartments are privately owned.
an American-owned company
He owned to a feeling of guilt.
She owned (that) she had been present.
I'm still waiting for someone to own up to the breakages.
a dog/factory owner
The painting has been returned to its rightful owner.
He's now the proud owner of a cottage in Wales.
a growth in home ownership
Ownership of the land is currently being disputed.
to be in joint/private/public ownership
The restaurant is under new ownership.
I can't work if I'm cold.
I've been working at my assignment all day.
He is working on a new novel.
She's outside, working on the car.
Doctors often work very long hours.
Both my parents work.
She works for an engineering company.
I've always worked in education.
Do you enjoy working with children?
My son is working as a teacher.
She works herself too hard.
She dedicated her life to working for peace.
The committee is working to get the prisoners freed.
to work the land (= grow crops on it, etc.)
He works a large area (= selling a company's goods, etc.).
(figurative) She was a skilful speaker who knew how to work a crowd (= to excite them or make them feel sth strongly).
The phone isn't working.
It works by electricity.
Are they any closer to understanding how the brain works?
Do you know how to work the coffee machine?
The machine is worked by wind power.
The pills the doctor gave me aren't working.
My plan worked, and I got them to agree.
His charm doesn't work on me (= does not affect or impress me).
Your age can work against you in this job.
Speaking Italian should work in his favour.
You can work miracles with very little money if you follow our home decoration tips.
to work clay
to work gold
to work the mixture into a paste
an artist working in oils
a craftsman working with wool
He stared at me in horror, his mouth working.
It will take a while for the drug to work out of your system.
(figurative) He worked his way to the top of his profession.
I was tied up, but managed to work myself free.
The screw had worked loose.
It was some time before he worked around to what he really wanted to say.
He's working at losing weight.
Learning to play the piano isn't easy. You have to work at it.
Can't you work a few more jokes into your speech?
Gradually work in the butter.
She worked off her anger by going for a walk.
They had a large bank loan to work off.
He hasn't said he'll do it yet, but I'm working on him.
You need to work on your pronunciation a bit more.
'Have you sorted out a babysitter yet?' 'No, but I'm working on it.'
I work out regularly to keep fit.
My first job didn't work out.
Things have worked out quite well for us.
It'll work out cheaper to travel by bus.
I've never been able to work her out.
to work out the answer
to work out a problem
Can you work out what these squiggles mean?
I couldn't work out where the music was coming from.
I've worked out a new way of doing it.
a worked-out silver mine
to work to a budget
We're working to a very tight deadline (= we have little time in which to do the work).
I can't work up any enthusiasm for his idea.
She went for a long walk to work up an appetite.
Don't work yourself up into a state about it. It isn't worth it.
What are you so worked up about?
I'm working my notes up into a dissertation.
The music worked up to a rousing finale.
I began by jogging in the park and worked up to running five miles a day.
She had been out of work (= without a job) for a year.
(BrE) They are in work (= have a job).
He started work as a security guard.
It is difficult to find work in the present economic climate.
I'm still looking for work.
She's planning to return to work once the children start school.
What line of work are you in (= what type of work do you do)?
before/after work (= in the morning/evening each day)
full-time/part-time/unpaid/voluntary work
Police work is mainly routine.
The accountant described his work to the sales staff.
There is plenty of work to be done in the garden.
Taking care of a baby is hard work.
I have some work for you to do.
Stop talking and get on with your work.
She often brings work (= for example, files and documents) home with her from the office.
His work was spread all over the floor.
I go to work at 8 o'clock.
When do you leave for work?
The new legislation concerns health and safety at work.
I have to leave work early today.
Her friends from work came to see her in the hospital.
She earned her grades through sheer hard work.
We started work on the project in 2009.
Work continues on renovating the hotel.
The work of building the bridge took six months.
The art collection was his life's work.
She set them to work painting the fence.
She's an artist whose work I really admire.
Is this all your own work (= did you do it without help from others)?
The book is a detailed and thorough piece of work covering all aspects of the subject.
The damage is clearly the work of vandals.
the collected/complete works of Tolstoy
works of fiction/literature
Beethoven's piano works
roadworks
They expanded the shipyards and started engineering works.
an engineering works
We went to the chip shop and had the works: fish, chips, gherkins, mushy peas.
I didn't say owt.
He said he would be here at eight o'clock (= His words were: 'I will be there at eight o'clock.').
She asked if I would help.
They told me that they probably wouldn't come.
She'd look better with shorter hair.
If you went to see him, he would be delighted.
Hurry up! It would be a shame to miss the beginning of the play.
She'd be a fool to accept it (= if she accepted).
If I had seen the advertisement in time I would have applied for the job.
They would never have met if she hadn't gone to Emma's party.
She burned the letters so that her husband would never read them.
I wish you'd be quiet for a minute.
She wouldn't change it, even though she knew it was wrong.
My car wouldn't start this morning.
Would you mind leaving us alone for a few minutes?
Would you open the door for me, please?
Would you like a sandwich?
Would you have dinner with me on Friday?
I'd love a coffee.
I'd be only too glad to help.
I'd hate you to think I was criticizing you.
I'd rather come with you.
I'd rather you came with us.
I would imagine the job will take about two days.
I'd say he was about fifty.
I wouldn't have any more to drink, if I were you.
When my parents were away, my grandmother would take care of me.
He'd always be the first to offer to help.
'She said it was your fault.' 'Well, she would say that, wouldn't she? She's never liked me.'
Would that he had lived to see it.
an Oxbridge education
an oxford shirt
iron oxide
an oxide of tin
Alice Tolley MA (Oxon)
oxtail soup
an oxyacetylene torch
Oyster beds, on the mudflats, are a form of fish farming.
4oz sugar
See p.34 and pp.63–72.
a 30p stamp
'Pizza' begins with (a) P/'P'.
Add £2 for p. and p.
an increase of 3% p.a.
Make sure you get here p.d.q.
The appointment is at 3 p.m.
Rent is £100 p.w.
I used to know your pa.
Announcements were made over the PA.
She's the Managing Director's PA.
to set off at a steady/gentle/leisurely pace
Congestion frequently reduces traffic to walking pace.
The ball gathered pace as it rolled down the hill.
The runners have noticeably quickened their pace.
It is difficult to keep up with the rapid pace of change.
We encourage all students to work at their own pace (= as fast or as slow as they can).
I prefer the relaxed pace of life in the country.
Rumours of corruption and scandal gathered pace (= increased in number).
She took two paces forward.
He gave up his job in advertising because he couldn't stand the pace.
The novel lacks pace (= it develops too slowly).
The company is no longer setting the pace in the home computer market.
She paced up and down outside the room.
Ted paced the floor restlessly.
He paced his game skilfully.
He'll have to learn to pace himself in this job.
The evidence suggests, pace Professor Jones, that… (= Professor Jones has a different opinion).
(figurative) The big banks have been the pacesetters in developing the system.
The local club are now only one point off the pacemakers.
a pacy winger who can also score goals
The baby could not be pacified.
The speech was designed to pacify the irate crowd.
pacifist beliefs
I haven't packed yet.
I haven't packed my suitcase yet.
He packed a bag with a few things and was off.
He packed a few things into a bag.
Did you pack the camera?
I've packed you some food for the journey.
The pottery was packed in boxes and shipped to the US.
I carefully packed up the gifts.
The paintings were carefully packed in newspaper.
fish packed in ice
We all packed together into one car.
Fans packed the hall to see the band.
Pack the earth down around the plant.
a patch of packed snow
to pack a gun
Is he packing?
A storm packing 75 mph winds swept across the area last night.
The advertising campaign packs quite a punch.
The tent packs away in a small bag.
We packed away the summer clothes.
The show is still packing them in.
She decided to pack in her job.
(especially BrE) Pack it in (= stop behaving badly or annoying me), you two!
You seem to have packed a lot into your life!
They've managed to pack a lot of information into a very small book.
Over 80 000 fans packed into the stadium to watch the final.
My parents always packed me off to bed early.
The band can still pack out concert halls.
The TV's packed up again.
Are you packing up already? It's only 4 o'clock.
We arrived just as the musicians were packing up their instruments.
What made you pack up a good job like that?
a pack of cigarettes/gum
You can buy the envelopes in packs of ten.
Send for your free information pack today.
donkeys carrying packs of wool
(figurative) Everything she told us is a pack of lies (= a story that is completely false).
We passed a group of walkers, carrying huge packs.
packs of savage dogs
wolves hunting in packs
a pack of hounds
We avoided a pack of journalists waiting outside.
He's the leader of the pack.
measures aimed at keeping the company ahead of the pack
a pack of cards
to join a Brownie pack
A large package has arrived for you.
Check the list of ingredients on the side of the package.
a package of hamburger buns
a benefits package
an aid package
a package of measures to help small businesses
The system came with a database software package.
packaged food/goods
We package our products in recyclable materials.
The orders were already packaged up, ready to be sent.
an attempt to package news as entertainment
Attractive packaging can help to sell products.
His company offers a flexible packaging service for the food industry.
The restaurant was packed.
The show played to packed houses (= large audiences).
The book is packed with information.
an information-packed book
The birds' nests are lined with tightly packed leaves.
I'm all packed and ready to go.
Opera houses are packed out wherever she sings.
a packet of biscuits/cigarettes/crisps
A packet of photographs arrived with the mail.
a packet of instant cocoa mix
That car must have cost a packet.
a training packet
Have you finished your packing?
(BrE) The price includes postage and packing.
a non-aggression pact
They have made a pact with each other not to speak about their differences in public.
a suicide pact (= an agreement by two or more people to kill themselves at the same time)
medicated cleansing pads for sensitive skin
sanitary pads (= that a woman uses during her period )
a sketch/writing pad
a scouring pad
floating lily pads
All the sharp corners were padded with foam.
a padded jacket
a padded envelope (= for sending delicate objects)
She padded across the room to the window.
to pad bills/expense accounts
The report was padded out with extracts from previous documents.
Let's go for a paddle.
We paddled downstream for about a mile.
We paddled the canoe along the coast.
The children have gone paddling.
a rice paddy
The news put him in a bit of a paddy.
She always padlocked her bike to the railings.
The doors were padlocked.
paediatrician
paediatric surgery
a pagan festival
Turn to page 64.
Someone has torn a page out of this book.
a blank/new page
the sports/financial pages of the newspaper
on the opposite/facing page
over the page (= on the next page)
a glorious page of Arab history
the power of the printed word
Why don't you have him paged at the airport?
Page Dr Green immediately.
a surge in page views
a beauty pageant
life's rich pageant
the pageantry of royal occasions
Neither of them is currently in paid employment.
a well-paid job
Men still outnumber women in the paid workforce.
a poorly paid teacher
a fully paid-up member
a fully paid-up environmental campaigner
a cry of pain
She was clearly in a lot of pain.
He felt a sharp pain in his knee.
patients suffering from acute back pain
stomach/chest pains
You get more aches and pains as you get older.
The booklet contains information on pain relief during labour.
This cream should help to relieve the pain.
the pain of separation
I never meant to cause her pain.
the pleasures and pains of growing old
She can be a real pain when she's in a bad mood.
It's a pain having to go all that way for just one meeting.
She was deeply pained by the accusation.
(old use) The wound still pained him occasionally.
It pains me to see you like this.
It pained him that she would not acknowledge him.
He broke through the pain barrier at 25 kilometres and went on to win his first marathon.
a pained expression/voice
Is your back still painful?
a painful death
My ankle is still too painful to walk on.
a painful experience/memory
Their efforts were painful to watch.
Applying for jobs can be a long and painful process.
Their son was painfully shy.
The dog was painfully thin.
He was painfully aware of his lack of experience.
Progress has been painfully slow.
He banged his knee painfully against the desk.
painfully acquired experience
She's on (= taking) painkillers.
painkilling drugs/injections
a painless death
The treatment is painless.
The interview was relatively painless.
painstaking research
The event had been planned with painstaking attention to detail.
white paint
gloss/matt/acrylic paint
The woodwork has recently been given a fresh coat of paint.
Wet paint! (= used as a sign)
The paint is starting to peel off.
oil paints
We've had the house painted.
Paint the shed with weather-resistant paint.
a brightly painted barge
The walls were painted yellow.
to paint portraits
A friend painted the children for me (= painted a picture of the children).
Slogans had been painted on the walls.
She paints in oils.
My mother paints well.
The article paints them as a bunch of petty criminals.
The documentary painted her in a bad light.
The report paints a vivid picture of life in the city.
Journalists paint a grim picture of conditions in the camps.
We painted over the dirty marks on the wall.
He accused the government of relying on paint-by-numbers policies.
He works as a painter and decorator.
a famous painter
a portrait/landscape painter
a collection of paintings by American artists
cave paintings
Her hobbies include music and painting.
painting and decorating
The paintwork is beginning to peel.
a pair of gloves/shoes/earrings, etc.
a huge pair of eyes
The vase is one of a matching pair.
a pair of trousers/pants/jeans, etc.
a pair of glasses/binoculars/scissors, etc.
three pair of shoes
Get pairs of students to act out the dialogue in front of the class.
Get the students to do the exercise as pair work (= two students work together).
(informal) I've had enough of the pair of you!
A pair of children were kicking a ball about.
The pair are planning a trip to India together.
a breeding pair
a pair of swans
a carriage and pair
Each blind student was paired with a sighted student.
All the shoes on the floor were neatly paired.
Many of the species pair for life.
It seemed that all her friends were pairing off.
He's always trying to pair me off with his cousin.
Tonight they take on a Chinese pairing in their bid to reach the final tomorrow.
a paisley tie
We've been pals for years.
If I were you, pal, I'd stay away from her!
I got very pally (= friendly) with him.
I palled around with him and his sister at school.
They palled up while they were at college.
Buckingham Palace
the royal/presidential palace
The Palace last night refused to comment on the reports.
a Palace spokesman
The Old Town has a whole collection of churches, palaces and mosques.
the Strand Palace Hotel
Some of the dialogue has been changed to make it more palatable to an American audience.
the hard/soft palate (= the hard/soft part at the front/back of the palate )
a menu to tempt even the most jaded palate
What's all the palaver about?
What a palaver it is, trying to get a new visa!
He's talking palaver.
a pale complexion
pale with fear
to go/turn pale
You look pale. Are you OK?
The ordeal left her looking pale and drawn.
pale blue eyes
a paler shade of green
a pale sky
the cold pale light of dawn
Mark stared palely (= with a pale face) at his plate.
She (= her face) paled visibly at the sight of the police car.
The blue of the sky paled to a light grey.
Greens and browns are typical of Ribera's palette.
a pall of smoke/dust
(figurative) News of her death cast a pall over the event.
Even the impressive scenery began to pall on me after a few hundred miles.
palliative treatment
short-term palliative measures
a pallid complexion
a pallid sky
Her cheeks had an unhealthy pallor.
He held the bird gently in the palm of his hand.
sweaty palms
to read sb's palm (= to say what you think will happen to sb by looking at the lines on their palm )
a date palm
a coconut palm
palm leaves/fronds/groves
She's always palming the worst jobs off on her assistant.
Make sure he doesn't try to palm you off with faulty goods.
They were trying to palm the table off as a genuine antique.
That's a picture of me in my palmier days.
a palpable sense of relief
The tension in the room was almost palpable.
It was palpably clear what she really meant.
Just the thought of flying gives me palpitations (= makes me very nervous).
This account offers a paltry 1% return on your investment.
a paltry sum
a paltry gesture
You'll have to play inside today.
There's a time to work and a time to play.
A group of kids were playing with a ball in the street.
I haven't got anybody to play with!
Let's play a different game.
Let's play pirates.
They were playing at being cowboys.
to play football/chess/cards, etc.
France are playing Wales tomorrow.
Have you played her at squash yet?
He plays for Cleveland.
France are playing against Wales on Saturday.
Evans played very well.
Who's playing on the wing?
I've never played right back before.
I think we should play Matt on the wing.
She played the ball and ran forward.
He played a backhand volley.
She played her bishop.
to play your ace/a trump
He played out of turn!
to play the piano/violin/flute, etc.
In the distance a band was playing.
He played a tune on his harmonica.
Play that new piece to us.
Play us that new piece.
Play their new CD for me, please.
They're always playing that song on the radio.
Play me their new album, please.
My favourite song was playing on the radio.
These videos won't play on my computer.
Click below to play videos.
The part of Elizabeth was played by Cate Blanchett.
He had always wanted to play Othello.
I decided it was safer to play dead.
She enjoys playing the wronged wife.
A production of 'Carmen' was playing to packed houses.
The media played an important part in the last election.
He played the situation carefully for maximum advantage.
Sunlight played on the surface of the lake.
What do you think you are playing at?
Don't play around with my tools!
Her husband is always playing around.
I decided to play along with her idea.
Play that last section back to me again.
She played her two rivals off against each other and got the job herself.
The home team claimed a penalty but the referee told them to play on.
Advertisements often play on people's fears.
Their love affair was played out against the backdrop of war.
The kids have been playing up all day.
My shoulder is playing me up today.
She tends to play with men's emotions.
She realized that Patrick was merely playing with her.
She was playing with her hair.
Stop playing with your food!
In this poem Fitch plays with words which sound alike.
The composer plays with the exotic sounds of Japanese instruments.
the importance of learning through play
a play area
to put on (= perform) a play
a play by Shakespeare
a radio play
Rain stopped play.
There was some excellent play in yesterday's match.
a defensive play
We need more play in the rope.
the free play of market forces
The financial crisis has brought new factors into play.
Personal feelings should not come into play when you are making business decisions.
the play of sunlight on water
What is the current state of play in the peace talks?
a tennis/rugby/chess, etc. player
a game for four players
The company has emerged as a major player in the London property market.
a CD/DVD/cassette/record player
a trumpet player
Phoenix Players present 'Romeo and Juliet'.
The orchestral playing is superb.
repeated playings of the National Anthem
Pamper yourself with our new range of beauty treatments.
a spoilt and pampered child
pots and pans
a large stainless steel pan
a pan of boiling water
a cake pan
The camera panned back to the audience.
He panned the camera along the row of faces.
panning for gold
I'm happy with the way things have panned out.
pan-African
pandemic
pan-fried chicken
One of the glass panels in the front door was cracked.
The trousers have double thickness knee panels for extra protection.
an advisory panel
a panel of experts
We have two politicians on tonight's panel.
a panel discussion
an instrument panel
a control/display panel
The walls were panelled in oak.
a glass-/wood-panelled door
There is a superb panorama of the mountains from the hotel.
The cottage had a delightful sea view.
It's a spectacular sight as the flamingos lift into the air.
It was a delightful rural scene.
The tower offers a breathtaking panorama of Prague.
a panoramic view over the valley
a pandemic disease
Pandemonium broke out when the news was announced.
to pander to sb's wishes
The speech was pandering to racial prejudice.
This court case could open a Pandora's box of similar claims.
a pane of glass
a windowpane
hunger pangs/pangs of hunger
a sudden pang of jealousy
a moment of panic
They were in a state of panic.
Office workers fled in panic as the fire took hold.
There's no point getting into a panic about the exams.
a panic attack (= a condition in which you suddenly feel very anxious, causing your heart to beat faster, etc.)
a panic decision (= one that is made when you are in a state of panic )
News of the losses caused (a) panic among investors.
Careful planning at this stage will help to avoid a last-minute panic.
There's no panic (= we do not need to rush), we've got plenty of time.
panic buying/selling (= the act of buying/selling things quickly and without thinking carefully because you are afraid that a particular situation will become worse)
I panicked when I saw smoke coming out of the engine.
The gunfire panicked the horses.
She finished the race panting heavily.
She could hear him panting up the stairs (= running up and breathing quickly).
He found her panting for breath at the top of the hill.
His breath came in short pants.
The end of the novel leaves you panting for more.
the ancient Egyptian pantheon
a pair of pants
a new pair of pants
ski pants
Their new album is absolute pants!
Do we have to watch this pants programme?
She can't even go to the gym without being papped.
papal authority
a papal visit to Mexico
a piece/sheet of paper
a package wrapped in brown paper
recycled paper
She wrote her name and address on a slip (= a small piece) of paper.
Experience is more important for this job than paper qualifications (= that exist on paper, but may not have any real value).
paper losses/profits (= that are shown in accounts but which may not exist in reality)
This journal is available in paper and electronic form.
a local/national paper
a daily/an evening/a Sunday paper
I read about it in the paper.
Have you seen today's paper?
The papers (= newspapers in general) soon got hold of the story.
His desk was covered with books and papers.
divorce/identification papers
The Geography paper was hard.
She spent the evening marking exam papers.
a recent paper in the Journal of Medicine
She was invited to give a paper (= a talk) on the results of her research.
Your grade will be based on four papers and a final exam.
The room was damp and the paper was peeling off.
The previous owners had obviously papered over any damp patches.
The government is trying to paper over the cracks in the cabinet.
We can't just paper over the problem.
He was a shrewd lawyer with a talent for uncovering paper trails of fraud.
paper-thin slices of meat
a cheap paperback
When is it coming out in paperback?
a paperback book/edition
the paperless office
a system of paperless business transactions
We're trying to cut down on the amount of paperwork involved.
How quickly can you prepare the paperwork?
a par five hole
Par for the course is 72.
to be redeemed at par
She turned out to be an organizer par excellence.
Chemistry was par excellence the laboratory science of the early nineteenth century.
See par. 3.
paranormal
paramilitary
a paramedic
parabolic curves
Do you have any paracetamol?
Take two paracetamol(s) and try to sleep.
Planes dropped supplies by parachute.
a parachute drop/jump
a parachute regiment
The pilot was able to parachute to safety.
She regularly goes parachuting.
the Lord Mayor's parade
St Patrick's Day parade in New York
a military parade
They stood as straight as soldiers on parade.
(figurative) The latest software will be on parade at the exhibition.
Each generation passes through a similar parade of events.
a shopping parade
The victorious team will parade through the city tomorrow morning.
People were parading up and down showing off their finest clothes.
The trophy was paraded around the stadium.
The prisoners were paraded in front of the crowd.
(figurative) He is not one to parade his achievements.
The crowds applauded as the guards paraded past.
The colonel paraded his men before the Queen.
myth parading as fact
He paraded himself as a loyal supporter of the party.
a paradigm for students to copy
The war was a paradigm of the destructive side of human nature.
verb paradigms
The ancient Egyptians saw paradise as an idealized version of their own lives.
a tropical paradise
The area is a birdwatcher's paradise.
Being alone is his idea of paradise.
He was a paradox—a loner who loved to chat to strangers.
It is a curious paradox that professional comedians often have unhappy personal lives.
'More haste, less speed' is a well-known paradox.
It's a work full of paradox and ambiguity.
It is paradoxical that some of the poorest people live in some of the richest areas of the country.
Paradoxically, the less she ate, the fatter she got.
a paraffin heater/lamp/stove
to go paragliding
I make no claim to be a paragon.
He wasn't the paragon of virtue she had expected.
an opening/introductory paragraph
Write a paragraph on each of the topics given below.
See paragraph 15 of the handbook.
The road and the canal are parallel to each other.
a parallel case
parallel trends
parallel processing
The road and the canal run parallel to each other.
The plane flew parallel to the coast.
These ideas have parallels in Freud's thought too.
This is an achievement without parallel in modern times.
This tradition has no parallel in our culture.
There are interesting parallels between the 1960s and the late 1990s.
It is possible to draw a parallel between (= find similar features in) their experience and ours.
the 49th parallel
Their legal system parallels our own.
The rise in unemployment is paralleled by an increase in petty crime.
a level of achievement that has never been paralleled
I think he exaggerates the parallelism between the two cases.
The accident left him paralysed from the waist down.
(figurative) paralysing heat
(figurative) She stood there, paralysed with fear.
The airport is still paralysed by the strike.
paralysis of both legs
The strike caused total paralysis in the city.
a paralytic illness
paralytic fear
Paramedics treated the injured at the roadside.
paramedical staff
to set/define the parameters
We had to work within the parameters that had already been established.
a right-wing paramilitary group
paramilitary police, such as the CRS in France
This matter is of paramount importance.
Safety is paramount.
China's paramount leader
She's getting really paranoid about what other people say about her.
paranoid delusions
paranoid schizophrenia
a paranoid killer
Irregular forms are given in parentheses.
He was not prepared to put his head above the parapet and say what he really thought (= he did not want to risk doing it).
skiing paraphernalia
an electric kettle and all the paraphernalia for making tea and coffee
Try to paraphrase the question before you answer it.
to go parascending
a parasitic disease/infection
a parasitic mite
a paratroop regiment
There's a parcel and some letters for you.
She was carrying a parcel of books under her arm.
The prisoners were allowed food parcels.
50 five-acre parcels have already been sold.
filo pastry parcels
Keeping the accounts is part and parcel of my job.
She parcelled up the books to send.
The land was parcelled out into small lots.
dry parched land
soil parched by drought
She licked her parched lips.
Let's get a drink—I'm parched.
parchment scrolls
'You're very quiet today.' 'Pardon?' 'I said you're very quiet today.'
to ask/grant/receive a pardon
a royal/presidential pardon
He asked her pardon for having deceived her.
She was pardoned after serving ten years of a life sentence.
Pardon my ignorance, but what is a 'duplex'?
The place was, if you'll pardon the expression, a dump.
You could be pardoned for thinking (= it is easy to understand why people think) that education is not the government's priority.
Pardon me for interrupting you.
Pardon my asking, but is that your husband?
'Oh, just shut up!' 'Well, pardon me for breathing!'
She pared the apple.
First, pare the rind from the lemon.
He pared away the excess glue with a razor blade.
The training budget has been pared back to a minimum.
The workforce has been pared to the bone (= reduced to the lowest possible level).
He's still living with his parents.
her adoptive parents
Sue and Ben have recently become parents.
the parent bird/tree
a parent bank and its subsidiaries
the parent company
a young American of German parentage
Nothing is known about her parentage and background.
parental responsibility/rights
parental choice in education
the parental home
parental control software
paid/unpaid parental leave
fathers who take parental leave
parenthetical remarks
the responsibilities/joys of parenthood
good/poor parenting
parenting skills
chicken liver parfait
cheese parings
a parish church/priest
He is vicar of a large rural parish.
the parish council
parish-pump politics
Prison officers are demanding pay parity with the police force.
to achieve parity with the dollar
There is one particular patient I'd like you to see.
Is there a particular type of book he enjoys?
We must pay particular attention to this point.
These documents are of particular interest.
She's very particular about her clothes.
The police officer took down all the particulars of the burglary.
The nurse asked me for my particulars (= personal details such as your name, address, etc.).
The new contract will be the same in every particular as the old one.
Application forms and further particulars are available from the Personnel Office.
Hyde Park
We went for a walk in the park.
a park bench
a business/science park
a wildlife park
the fastest man on the park
You can't park here.
You can't park the car here.
He's parked very badly.
a badly parked truck
A red van was parked in front of the house.
a parked car
(informal, figurative) Just park your bags in the hall until your room is ready.
She parked herself on the edge of the bed.
Let's park that until our next meeting.
People want to be able to park up and pop into the shop.
I couldn't get parked up anywhere near the restaurant.
Use the park and ride.
I've left my car in the park and ride.
a park-and-ride service
There is no parking here between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m.
I managed to find a parking space.
a parking fine (= for parking illegally)
The hotel is centrally situated with ample free parking.
in common/legal/modern parlance
A Munro, in climbing parlance, is a Scottish mountain exceeding 3 000 feet.
She hopes to parlay her success as a model into an acting career.
The German parliament is called the 'Bundestag'.
a Member of Parliament
The issue was debated in Parliament.
an Act of Parliament
to win a seat in Parliament
to be elected to Parliament
We are now into the second half of the parliament.
to dissolve Parliament (= formally end its activities) and call an election
parliamentary elections
a parliamentary democracy
He made the allegation under the protection of parliamentary privilege.
a beauty/an ice-cream parlour
parochial schools
a member of the parochial church council
the parochialism of a small community
a parody of a horror film
The trial was a parody of justice.
to be eligible for parole
She was released on parole.
She was paroled after two years.
paroxysms of hate
a paroxysm of laughter
parquet flooring
He parried a blow to his head.
The shot was parried by the goalie.
She parried all questions about their relationship.
fish with parsley sauce
We spent part of the time in the museum.
Part of the building was destroyed in the fire.
Voters are given only part of the story (= only some of the information).
Part of me feels sorry for him (= I feel partly, but not entirely, sorry for him).
The early part of her life was spent in Paris.
The novel is good in parts.
We've done the difficult part of the job.
The procedure can be divided into two parts.
The worst part was having to wait three hours in the rain.
You need to be able to work as part of a team.
aircraft parts
the working parts of the machinery
spare parts
the parts of the body
the northern part of the country
a plant that grows in many parts of the world
Which part of Japan do you come from?
Come and visit us if you're ever in our part of the world.
She's not from these parts.
He's just arrived back from foreign parts.
an encyclopedia published in 25 weekly parts
Henry IV, Part II
The final part will be shown next Sunday evening.
She was very good in the part.
Have you learned your part yet?
(figurative) He's always playing a part (= pretending to be sth that he is not).
He had no part in the decision.
the clarinet part
four-part harmony
Add three parts wine to one part water.
to take part in a discussion/demonstration/fight/celebration
How many countries took part in the last Olympic Games?
His mother always takes his part.
We parted at the airport.
I hate to part on such bad terms.
He has recently parted from his wife (= they have started to live apart).
I hate being parted from the children.
The puppies were parted from their mother at birth.
The crowd parted in front of them.
The elevator doors parted and out stepped the President.
Her lips were slightly parted.
She parted the curtains a little and looked out.
He parts his hair in the middle.
Make sure you read the contract before parting with any money.
She's part French, part English.
His feelings were part anger, part relief.
The course is part funded by the European Commission.
He is part owner of a farm in France.
We'll take your car in part exchange.
She's looking for a part-time job.
to study on a part-time basis
part-time workers
I'm only part-time at the moment.
Liz works part-time from 10 till 2.
They were part-way through the speeches when he arrived.
Would you care to partake of some refreshment?
They preferred not to partake in the social life of the town.
His work partakes of the aesthetic fashions of his time.
She didn't participate in the discussion.
We encourage students to participate fully in the running of the college.
Details of the competition are available at all participating stores.
parthenogenetic species
These organisms reproduce parthenogenetically.
It was only a partial solution to the problem.
a partial eclipse of the sun
I'm not partial to mushrooms.
She has a partiality for exotic flowers.
The road was partially blocked by a fallen tree.
a society for the blind and partially sighted (= people who can see very little)
The road is partly/partially finished.
I didn't enjoy the trip very much, partly because of the weather.
His mother is partially blind.
He has been an active participant in the discussion.
a show with lots of audience participation
A back injury prevented active participation in any sports for a while.
Participatory democracy is a fundamental principle of cooperative businesses.
particles of dust/gold
In 'She tore up the letter', the word 'up' is a particle.
particularly good/important/useful
Traffic is bad, particularly in the city centre.
I enjoyed the play, particularly the second half.
The lecture was not particularly (= not very) interesting.
'Did you enjoy it?' 'No, not particularly (= not very much).'
the particularity of each human being
particulate pollution
the Democratic and Republican Parties in the United States
She belongs to the Labour Party.
the ruling/opposition party
the party leader/manifesto/policy
a birthday/dinner/garden, etc. party
to give/have/throw a party
Did you go to the party?
party games
The school is taking a party of 40 children to France.
The theatre gives a 10% discount to parties of more than ten.
the guilty/innocent party
The contract can be terminated by either party with three months' notice.
They were out partying every night.
the moment of parting
We had a tearful parting at the airport.
a side/centre parting
the parting of the clouds
a parting kiss
His parting words were 'I love you.'
Most newspapers are politically partisan.
a glass partition
partition walls
the partition of Germany after the war
to partition a country
The room is partitioned into three sections.
In 'a spoonful of sugar', the word 'spoonful' is a partitive.
Some people are unwilling to attend the classes partly because of the cost involved.
He was only partly responsible for the accident.
Come to the New Year disco and bring your partner!
a marriage partner
a partner in a law firm
a junior/senior partner
a dancing/tennis, etc. partner
a trading partner
Gerry offered to partner me at tennis.
to be in/to go into partnership
He developed his own program in partnership with an American expert.
Marriage should be an equal partnership.
the school's partnership with parents
a partnership between the United States and Europe
a junior member of the partnership
a party political broadcast
The President should stand above party politics.
Many people think that party politics should not enter into local government.
a passenger train (= carrying passengers, not goods)
The firm cannot afford to carry passengers.
Several people were passing but nobody offered to help.
I hailed a passing taxi.
The road was so narrow that cars were unable to pass.
to pass a barrier/sentry/checkpoint
You'll pass a bank on the way to the train station.
She passed me in the street without even saying hello.
(especially NAmE) There was a truck behind that was trying to pass me.
The procession passed slowly along the street.
A plane passed low overhead.
He passed the rope around the post three times to secure it.
Pass the salt, please.
Pass that book over.
Pass me over that book.
He passed the ball to Rooney.
Why do they keep passing back to the goalie?
On his death, the title passed to his eldest son.
Unemployment has now passed the three million mark.
She had passed from childhood to early womanhood.
Six months passed and we still had no news of them.
We grew more anxious with every passing day.
We sang songs to pass the time.
How did you pass the evening?
They waited for the storm to pass.
I'm not really expecting to pass first time.
She hasn't passed her driving test yet.
The examiners passed all the candidates.
The bill was passed by 360 votes to 280.
I don't like it, but I'll let it pass (= will not object).
Her remarks passed without comment (= people ignored them).
They'll never be friends again after all that has passed between them.
His departure passed unnoticed.
'What's the capital of Peru?' 'I'll have to pass on that one.'
'Who wrote 'Catch-22'?' 'Pass (= I don't know).'
Thanks. I'm going to pass on dessert, if you don't mind.
The court waited in silence for the judge to pass sentence.
It's not for me to pass judgement on your behaviour.
The man smiled at the girl and passed a friendly remark.
It passes belief (= is impossible to believe) that she could do such a thing.
If you're passing blood you ought to see a doctor.
Can you pass these pictures around for everyone to look at, please?
His mother passed away last year.
civilizations that have passed away
The procession passed right by my front door.
She feels that life is passing her by (= that she is not enjoying the opportunities and pleasures of life).
He speaks the language so well he could easily pass for a German.
We had some wine—or what passes for wine in that area.
Many foreign words have passed into the English language.
The demonstration passed off peacefully.
He escaped by passing himself off as a guard.
Pass the book on to me when you've finished with it.
I passed your message on to my mother.
Much of the discount is pocketed by retailers instead of being passed on to customers.
a passing-out ceremony
He was passed over in favour of a younger man.
They chose to pass over her rude remarks.
We were passing through, so we thought we'd come and say hello.
Imagine passing up an offer like that!
She got a pass in French.
12 passes and 3 fails
Two A-level passes are needed for this course.
The pass mark is 50%.
The school has a 90% pass rate (= 90% of students pass their exams).
a boarding pass (= for a plane)
There is no admittance without a security pass.
a long pass to Turner
a back pass to the goalkeeper
a mountain pass
The helicopter made several passes over the village before landing.
In the first pass all the addresses are loaded into the database.
to take a class pass-fail
He speaks passably good French.
a secret underground passage
A dark narrow passage led to the main hall.
blocked nasal passages
Read the following passage and answer the questions below.
Her confidence grew with the passage of time.
The bill is now guaranteed an easy passage through the House of Representatives.
Her grandfather had worked his passage (= worked on a ship to pay for the journey) to America.
The officers forced a passage through the crowd.
Large trees may obstruct the passage of light.
We were promised (a) safe passage through the occupied territory.
Police asked passers-by if they had seen the accident.
When the government is finally brought down, no one will mourn its passing.
the passing of the old year (= on New Year's Eve)
Many will mourn her passing (= her death, when you do not want to say this directly).
the passing of a resolution/law
a passing phase/thought/interest
He makes only a passing reference to the theory in his book (= it is not the main subject of his book).
She bears more than a passing resemblance to (= looks very like) your sister.
I love him more with each passing day.
the noise of passing cars
He's a man of violent passions.
a crime of passion
She argued her case with considerable passion.
Passions were running high (= people were angry and emotional) at the meeting.
She flies into a passion if anyone even mentions his name.
His passion for her made him blind to everything else.
The English have a passion for gardens.
Music is a passion with him.
to have a passionate nature
a passionate interest in music
a passionate defender of civil liberties
He took her in his arms and kissed her passionately.
They are all passionately interested in environmental issues.
He played a passive role in the relationship.
a passive observer of events
He exhibited passive-aggressive tendencies.
a valid passport
a South African passport
I was stopped as I went through passport control (= where passports are checked).
a passport photo
The only passport to success is hard work.
Enter a username and password to get into the system.
in past years/centuries/ages
in times past
The time for discussion is past.
I haven't seen much of her in the past few weeks.
The past month has been really busy at work.
past events
From past experience I'd say he'd probably forgotten the time.
past and present students of the college
Let's forget about who was more to blame—it's all past history.
I used to go there often in the past.
the recent/distant past
She looked back on the past without regret.
Writing letters seems to be a thing of the past.
We don't know anything about his past.
They say she has a 'past' (= bad things in her past life that she wishes to keep secret).
half past two
ten (minutes) past six
There's a bus at twenty minutes past the hour (= at 1.20, 2.20, etc.).
We arrived at two o'clock and left at ten past (= ten minutes past two).
It was past midnight when we got home.
We live in the house just past the church.
He hurried past them without stopping.
He just walked straight past us!
Unemployment is now past the 3 million mark.
The flowers are past their best.
He's past his prime.
She's long past retirement age.
Honestly, I'm past caring what happens (= I can no longer be bothered to care).
In some sports you're past it by the age of 25.
That coat is looking decidedly past it.
I called out to him as he ran past.
A week went past and nothing had changed.
She's a past master at getting what she wants.
The past tense of 'take' is 'took'.
She mixed the flour and water to a smooth paste.
wallpaper paste
He pasted the pictures into his scrapbook.
Paste the two pieces together.
Paste down the edges.
The children were busy cutting and pasting paper hats.
This function allows you to cut and paste text.
It's quicker to cut and paste than to retype.
drawings in pastel
a box of pastels
The whole house was painted in soft pastels.
a pastiche of the classic detective story
a pasty face/complexion
fruit pastilles
throat pastilles
pastoral care
a pastoral scene/poem/symphony
agricultural and pastoral practices
an area of permanent/rough/rich pasture
high mountain pastures
The cattle were put out to pasture.
I felt we were off to greener pastures (= a better way of life).
(BrE) She decided it was time to move on to pastures new (= a new job, place to live, etc.).
She patted the dog on the head.
He patted his sister's hand consolingly.
Pat your face dry with a soft towel.
a pat on the head
He gave her knee an affectionate pat.
The ending of the novel is a little too pat to be convincing.
There are no pat answers to these questions.
a black dog with a white patch on its back
a bald patch on the top of his head
damp patches on the wall
I sewed patches on the knees of my jeans.
He had a black patch over one eye.
nicotine patches
a vegetable patch
He knows every house in his patch.
She has had a lot of success in her home patch.
to go through a bad/difficult/sticky patch
Follow the instructions below to download and install the patch.
patched jeans
to patch a hole in the roof
She was patched through to London on the satellite link.
They hope to be able to patch together a temporary settlement.
Just to patch the boat up will cost £10 000.
The doctor will soon patch you up.
They've managed to patch up their differences.
Have you tried patching things up with her?
They managed to patch up a deal.
patchy fog
The grass was dry and patchy.
a patchy knowledge of Spanish
It was a patchy performance.
a patchwork quilt
a patchwork of different styles and cultures
From the plane, the landscape was just a patchwork of fields.
The sun beat down on his bald pate.
to apply for/obtain a patent on an invention
The device was protected by patent.
patent applications/laws
the US Patent Office
patent medicines
It was a patent lie.
Her explanation was patently ridiculous.
It was patently obvious that she was lying.
paternal love
He gave me a piece of paternal advice.
my paternal grandmother (= my father's mother)
He smiled paternally at them.
a paternalistic employer
He refused to admit paternity of the child.
a concrete path
the garden path
Follow the path through the woods.
to walk along a path
The path led up a steep hill.
a coastal path
He threw himself into the path of an oncoming vehicle.
The avalanche forced its way down the mountain, crushing everything in its path.
Three men blocked her path.
a career path
the path to success
a pathetic and lonely old man
The starving children were a pathetic sight.
a pathetic excuse
She made a pathetic attempt to smile.
You're pathetic!
He cried pathetically.
a pathetically shy woman
The company is a pathfinder in computer technology.
pathogenesis (= the development of a disease)
pathophysiology
pathological fear/hatred/violence
a pathological liar (= a person who cannot stop telling lies)
pathological depression
pathologically jealous
She has little patience with (= will not accept or consider) such views.
People have lost patience with (= have become annoyed about) the slow pace of reform.
I have run out of patience with her.
My patience is wearing thin.
Teaching children with special needs requires patience and understanding.
It takes time and patience to photograph wildlife.
I don't have the patience to do jigsaw puzzles.
He's one of Dr Shaw's patients.
She's very patient with young children.
You'll just have to be patient and wait till I'm finished.
She sat patiently waiting for her turn.
(figurative) He looked relaxed and elegant and had the patina of success.
Let's have lunch out on the patio.
a patriarchal society
In that society, inheritance of land is patrilineal (= the children get the land that their father owned).
a patriotic man who served his country well
patriotic songs
Troops patrolled the border day and night.
Guards can be seen patrolling everywhere.
Gangs of youths patrol the streets at night.
Security guards make regular patrols at night.
a police car on patrol
a naval/police patrol
a patrol car/boat
Patrolman Don Lilly
Frederick the Great was the patron of many artists.
Patrons are requested not to smoke.
St Patrick, Ireland's patron saint
St Christopher, patron saint of travellers
Patronage of the arts comes from businesses and private individuals.
Some television programmes tend to patronize children.
The club is patronized by students and locals alike.
She patronizes many contemporary British artists.
a patronizing smile
I was only trying to explain; I didn't want to sound patronizing.
He patted her hand patronizingly.
the patter of feet/footsteps
the patter of rain on the roof
sales patter
Rain pattered against the window.
I heard her feet pattering along the corridor.
changing patterns of behaviour
an irregular sleeping pattern
The murders all seem to follow a (similar) pattern (= happen in the same way).
This system sets the pattern for others to follow.
a pattern of diamonds and squares
a shirt with a floral pattern
a knitting pattern
She bought a dress pattern and some material.
wallpaper patterns
Frost patterned the window.
a landscape patterned by vineyards
Adult behaviour is often patterned by childhood experiences.
a new approach patterned on Japanese ideas
patterned wallpaper
cups patterned with yellow flowers
cultural patterning
the patterning of husband-wife roles
a red fish with black patterning
a hamburger patty
a paucity of information
Anita paused for a moment, then said: 'All right'.
The woman spoke almost without pausing for breath (= very quickly).
I paused at the door and looked back.
Pausing only to pull on a sweater, he ran out of the house.
She paused the DVD and went to answer the phone.
There was a long pause before she answered.
David waited for a pause in the conversation so he could ask his question.
After a brief pause, they continued climbing.
The rain fell without pause.
Press pause to stop the tape.
a paved area near the back door
a pavement cafe
a mosaic pavement
Two cars skidded on the icy pavement.
the US pavilion at the Trade Fair
a cricket pavilion
the Pauley Pavilion, home of the university's basketball team
his first show at the Winter Gardens Pavilion, Blackpool
Weeds grew through the cracks in the paving.
We'll use concrete paving.
Her yawn was a Pavlovian response to my yawn.
Take your filthy paws off me!
The dog pawed at my sleeve.
The stallion pawed the ground impatiently.
The hostages are being used as political pawns.
I'll pay for the tickets.
Are you paying in cash or by credit card?
My company pays well (= pays high salaries).
Her parents paid for her to go to Canada.
to pay cash
She pays £200 a week for this apartment.
Would you mind paying the taxi driver?
He still hasn't paid me the money he owes me.
I'm paid $100 a day.
I don't pay you to sit around all day doing nothing!
to pay a bill/debt/fine/ransom, etc.
Membership fees should be paid to the secretary.
Have you paid him the rent yet?
It's hard to make farming pay.
Crime doesn't pay.
It pays to keep up to date with your work.
It would probably pay you to hire an accountant.
You'll pay for that remark!
Many people paid with their lives (= they died).
I didn't pay attention to what she was saying.
The director paid tribute to all she had done for the charity.
I'll pay a call on (= visit) my friends.
I'll pay you a call when I'm in town.
He's always paying me compliments.
The rail pass will pay for itself after about two trips.
He looked terrible this morning. I think he's paying the penalty for all those late nights.
They're now paying the price for past mistakes.
Many came to pay their last respects (= by attending sb's funeral).
I'll pay you back next week.
You can pay back the loan over a period of three years.
Did he ever pay you back that $100 he owes you?
I'll pay him back for making me look like a fool in front of everyone.
She used the money to pay down her mortgage.
I paid in a cheque this morning.
I'd like to pay some money into my account.
The gamble paid off.
The crew were paid off as soon as the ship docked.
All the witnesses had been paid off.
We paid off our mortgage after fifteen years.
I had to pay out £500 to get my car repaired.
I had a hard time getting him to pay up.
Her job is hard work, but the pay is good.
a pay increase
(BrE) a pay rise
(NAmE) a pay raise
a 3% pay offer
to make a pay claim (= to officially ask for an increase in pay)
a huge paycheck
pay-as-you-go phones
There has been an increase in pay-for-performance plans all over the US.
If you want the best, you have to pay top dollar.
We can help you get top dollar when you sell your house.
A 10% deposit is payable in advance.
The price is payable in monthly instalments.
a 10-year payback
His victory was seen as payback for all the hard work he'd put in during training.
(informal) It's payback time!(= a person will have to suffer for what they have done)
Friday is payday.
mortgage payers
The company are not very good payers (= they are slow to pay their bills, or they do not pay their employees well).
payment in instalments/in advance/by cheque/in cash
There will be a penalty for late payment of bills.
a cash payment
They are finding it difficult to meet the payments on their car.
He agreed to make ten monthly payments of £50.
We'd like you to accept this gift in payment for your kindness.
Is this all the payment I get for my efforts?
an insurance payout
a lottery payout
We have 500 people on the payroll.
The most interesting pages on the site are behind a paywall.
I'll send it to you as a PDF.
a PE class
pea soup
war and peace
peace talks/negotiations
The negotiators are trying to make peace between the warring factions.
A UN force has been sent to keep the peace (= to prevent people from fighting).
After years of war, the people long for a lasting peace.
the Peace of Utrecht, 1713 (= the agreement ending the war)
The two communities live together in peace.
The countries have been at peace for more than a century.
the peace movement (= that tries to prevent war by protesting, persuading politicians, etc.)
She lay back and enjoyed the peace of the summer evening.
I would work better if I had some peace and quiet.
He just wants to be left in peace (= not to be disturbed).
I need to check that she is all right, just for my own peace of mind (= so that I do not have to worry).
He never felt really at peace with himself.
They simply can't seem to live in peace with each other.
She felt at peace with the world.
world peace
I just need some peace and quiet.
A peaceable settlement has been reached.
a peaceable character
a peaceful protest/demonstration/solution
They hope for a peaceful settlement of the dispute.
a peaceful atmosphere
peaceful sleep
It's so peaceful out here in the country.
He had a peaceful life.
a peaceful society
The aims of the organization are wholly peaceful.
The siege has ended peacefully.
The baby slept peacefully.
She's the peacekeeper in that family.
peacekeeping operations
a United Nations peacekeeping force
a peach tree
pale peachy skin
Everything is just peachy.
as proud as a peacock
Traffic reaches its peak between 8 and 9 in the morning.
She's at the peak of her career.
the peaks and troughs of married life
a mountain peak
snow-capped/jagged peaks
The climbers made camp halfway up the peak.
Whisk the egg whites into stiff peaks.
Oil production peaked in the early 1980s.
Unemployment peaked at 17%.
an athlete who peaks (= produces his or her best performance) at just the right time
It was a time of peak demand for the product.
March is one of the peak periods for our business.
The athletes are all in peak condition.
We need extra help during the peak season.
peak-rate phone calls
You're looking a little peaky. Are you OK?
She burst into peals of laughter.
a peal of bells rang out
The bells of the city began to peal out.
Ellen pealed with laughter.
a packet of salted peanuts
peanut oil
He gets paid peanuts for doing that job.
(NAmE) a peanut butter and jelly sandwich
a pear tree
a string of pearls
a pearl necklace
She was wearing her pearls (= a necklace of pearls).
pearl buttons
pearls of dew on the grass
She is a pearl among women.
pearly white teeth
peasant farmers
the local peasantry
peat bogs
peaty soils
a pebbly beach
A robin was pecking at crumbs on the ground.
A bird had pecked a hole in the sack.
Vultures had pecked out the dead goat's eyes.
He pecked her on the cheek as he went out.
She pecked his cheek.
He gave her a friendly peck on the cheek.
The budgerigar gave a quick peck at the seed.
pectoral muscles
a peculiar smell/taste
There was something peculiar in the way he smiled.
I had a peculiar feeling we'd met before.
For some peculiar reason, she refused to come inside.
a humour that is peculiar to American sitcoms
a species of bird peculiar to Asia
He has his own peculiar style which you'll soon get used to.
the peculiar properties of mercury
a physical peculiarity
the cultural peculiarities of the English
These plants are peculiarly prone to disease.
He seemed to believe that it was a peculiarly British problem.
pecuniary advantage
pedagogic principles
I couldn't reach the pedals on her bike.
She pressed her foot down sharply on the brake pedal.
I saw her pedalling along the towpath.
He jumped on his bike and pedalled off.
She pedalled her bicycle up the track.
You'll have to pedal hard up this hill.
She had been pedalling her exercise bike all morning.
He worked as a door-to-door salesman peddling cloths and brushes.
to peddle illegal drugs
to peddle malicious gossip
This line (= publicly stated opinion) is being peddled by all the government spokesmen.
a pedestal basin (= a washbasin supported by a column)
I replaced the vase carefully on its pedestal.
pedestrian areas
Pedestrian accidents are down by 5%.
dogs with good pedigrees (= their ancestors are known and of the same breed)
She was proud of her long pedigree.
The product has a pedigree going back to the last century.
pedigree sheep
I need to pee.
(BrE) to go for a pee
to have a pee
(NAmE) to take a pee
No peeking!
She peeked at the audience from behind the curtain.
I couldn't resist peeking in the drawer.
Her feet peeked out from the end of the blanket.
I took a quick peek inside.
to peel an orange/a banana
Have you peeled the potatoes?
Carefully peel away the lining paper.
The label will peel off if you soak it in water.
The wallpaper was beginning to peel.
Put on some cream to stop your nose from peeling.
The walls have begun to peel.
The leading car in the motorcade peeled off to the right.
You look hot—why don't you peel off?
He peeled off his shirt.
orange/lemon peel
(NAmE also ) an orange/a lemon peel
a potato peeler
We caught her peeping through the keyhole.
Could I just peep inside?
He was peeping at her through his fingers.
The tower peeped above the trees.
The sun peeped out from behind the clouds.
Dave took a quick peep at the last page.
We did not hear a peep out of the baby all night.
I spoke to the marketing peeps this morning.
She enjoys the respect of her peers.
Children are worried about failing in front of their peers.
Peer pressure is strong among young people (= they want to be like other people of the same age).
We peered into the shadows.
He went to the window and peered out.
She kept peering over her shoulder.
He peered closely at the photograph.
She gets on well with her peer group.
peer-group pressure
All research proposals are subject to peer review before selection.
peer-reviewed journals
a member of the peerage
a peerless performance
He sounded peeved about not being told.
to perform an experiment/a miracle/a ceremony
She performs an important role in our organization.
This operation has never been performed in this country.
A computer can perform many tasks at once.
to perform somersaults/magic tricks
The play was first performed in 2007.
I'd like to hear it performed live.
to perform on the flute
I'm looking forward to seeing you perform.
The engine seems to be performing well.
The company has been performing poorly over the past year.
The performance starts at seven.
an evening performance
a performance of Ravel's String Quartet
a series of performances by the Kirov Ballet
one of the band's rare live performances
She gave the greatest performance of her career.
an Oscar-winning performance from Kate Winslet
the country's economic performance
It was an impressive performance by the French team.
The new management techniques aim to improve performance.
He criticized the recent poor performance of the company.
high-performance (= very powerful) cars
performance indicators (= things that show how well or badly sth is working)
She has shown enthusiasm in the performance of her duties.
He did not want a repeat performance of the humiliating defeat he had suffered.
It's such a performance getting the children off to school in the morning.
There's a peg near the door to hang your coat on.
a peg of whisky
All their wet clothes were pegged out on the line.
She was busy pegging her tent to the ground.
Pay increases will be pegged at 5%.
Loan repayments are pegged to your income.
She pegged him as a big spender.
Each time we scored we were pegged back minutes later.
a piece of string/wood
She wrote something on a small piece of paper.
a large piece of land
a piece of cake/cheese/meat
He cut the pizza into bite-sized pieces.
I've got a piece of grit in my eye.
a piece of paper/wood/string/cake/fruit/meat/work/research/advice
a bit of paper/work/chocolate/luck
a slice of bread/cake/salami/cheese/pie/apple
(figurative) a slice of life
a chunk of cheese/bread/rock
a chunk of land(= a fairly large piece)
a lump of coal/rock/mud
fragments of glass
(figurative) fragments of conversation
a fragment of the story
a speck of dust/dirt
a speck of light
a drop of water/rain/blood/milk/whisky
a pinch of salt/cinnamon
a portion of chicken
There were tiny pieces of glass all over the road.
The boat had been smashed to pieces on the rocks.
The vase lay in pieces on the floor.
He took the clock to pieces.
a missing piece of the puzzle
The bridge was taken down piece by piece.
a 500-piece jigsaw
a piece of clothing/furniture/luggage
a piece of equipment/machinery
a 28-piece dinner service
a piece of advice/information/news
an interesting piece of research
Isn't that a piece of luck?
a piece of art/music/poetry, etc.
They performed pieces by Bach and Handel.
(formal) They have some beautiful pieces (= works of art, etc.) in their home.
Did you see her piece about the Internet in the paper today?
a 50p piece
a five-cent piece
companies seeking a piece of the market
She lives down the road a piece from here.
You cannot live your children's lives for them; you can only be there to pick up the pieces when things go wrong.
Police are trying to piece together the last hours of her life.
to piece together a jigsaw
I'm using the word 'academic' here in a pejorative sense.
food pellets for chickens
The children pelted him with snowballs.
We pelted down the hill after the car.
the pelvic bones
pen and ink
a new book from the pen of Martin Amis
a sheep pen
He penned a letter to the local paper.
At clipping time sheep need to be penned.
The whole family were penned up in one room for a month.
pen-and-ink drawings
penal reforms
the penal system
Criminals could at one time be sentenced to penal servitude (= prison with hard physical work).
a penal colony (= a place where criminals were sent as a punishment in the past)
a penal offence
penal rates of interest
You will be penalized for poor spelling.
He was penalized for time-wasting.
Foul play will be severely penalized.
The new law appears to penalize the poorest members of society.
to impose a penalty
Assault carries a maximum penalty of seven years' imprisonment.
The penalty for travelling without a ticket is £200.
Contractors who fall behind schedule incur heavy financial penalties.
a penalty clause in a contract
You can withdraw money from the account at any time without penalty.
One of the penalties of fame is loss of privacy.
He incurred a ten-second penalty in the first round.
Two minutes later Ford equalized with a penalty.
We were awarded a penalty after a late tackle.
I volunteered to take the penalty (= be the person who tries to score the goal/point).
He missed a penalty in the last minute of the game.
an act of penance
to do penance for your sins
She regards living in New York as a penance; she hates big cities.
She has a penchant for champagne.
a pencil drawing
I'll get a pencil and paper.
She scribbled a note in pencil.
coloured pencils
a pencilled portrait
A previous owner had pencilled 'First Edition' inside the book's cover.
We've pencilled in a meeting for Tuesday afternoon.
Shall I pencil you in for Friday?(= for a meeting)
He was released on bail pending further inquiries.
Nine cases are still pending.
a pending file/tray (= where you put letters, etc. you are going to deal with soon)
An election is pending in Italy.
his pending departure
(figurative) In education, the pendulum has swung back to traditional teaching methods.
(figurative) the pendulum of public opinion
soil that is easily penetrable with a fork
The knife had penetrated his chest.
The sun's radiation penetrates the skin.
(figurative) The war penetrates every area of the nation's life.
These fine particles penetrate deep into the lungs.
They had penetrated airport security.
The party has been penetrated by extremists.
This year the company has been trying to penetrate new markets (= to start selling their products there).
The troops had penetrated deep into enemy lines.
Our eyes could not penetrate the darkness.
The flashlights barely penetrated the gloom.
Science can penetrate many of nature's mysteries.
I was at the door before his words penetrated.
None of my advice seems to have penetrated his thick skull (= he has not listened to any of it).
penetrating blue eyes
a penetrating gaze/look/stare
Her voice was shrill and penetrating.
a penetrating comment/criticism/question
a penetrating smell
the penetrating cold/damp
The floor is sealed to prevent water penetration.
the company's successful penetration of overseas markets
penetrative sex
penetrative weapons
a penetrative survey
the Iberian peninsula (= Spain and Portugal)
peninsular Spanish (= that is spoken in Spain, not in Latin America)
He had a few pennies in his pocket.
That will be 45 pence, please.
They cost 20p each.
to receive an old-age/a retirement pension
a disability/widow's pension
a state pension
to live on a pension
to take out a personal/private pension
a pension fund
He was pensioned off and his job given to a younger man.
(informal, figurative) That car of yours should have been pensioned off years ago.
people of pensionable age
pensionable pay
an old-age pensioner
a pensive mood
to look pensive
pent-up frustration/energy
She was too pent-up to speak.
pentagon
pentathlon
a spokesman for the Pentagon
the penultimate chapter/day/stage
At least ten people were killed in the crash.
There were a lot of people at the party.
Many young people are out of work.
He doesn't care what people think of him.
She tends to annoy people.
the French people
the native peoples of Siberia
the life of the common people
It was felt that the government was no longer in touch with the people.
a meeting with business people and bankers
These garments are intended for professional sports people.
The king urged his people to prepare for war.
I've had my people watching the house for a few days.
I'm having people to dinner this evening.
She's spending the holidays with her people.
The town was peopled largely by workers from the car factory and their families.
The ballroom was peopled with guests.
Ask yourself what the folks in Peoria will think of it.
epic/lyric/pastoral, etc. poetry
Maya Angelou's poetry
a poetry reading
There was poetry in all her gestures.
Pep up meals by adding more unusual spices.
A walk in the fresh air will pep you up.
(figurative) The Democrats held a pep rally on Capitol Hill yesterday.
Season with salt and pepper
freshly ground pepper
peppered steak
Salt and pepper the potatoes.
He peppered his speech with jokes.
a pepperoni pizza
a peppery old man
a peppy advertising jingle
Rooms cost £50 per person, per night.
60 miles per hour
earning £30 000 per annum
Per capita income rose sharply last year.
average earnings per capita
Poor families spend about 80 to 90 per cent of their income on food.
It is often stated that we use only 10 per cent of our brain.
What per cent of the population is/are overweight?
90% of the land is cultivated. *
Eighty per cent of the work force is/are against the strike.
65% of children play computer games. *
a 15 per cent rise in price
House prices rose five per cent last year.
a per diem allowance
He agreed to pay at specified rates per diem.
He will get $14 000 a year in per diem to help with the higher costs of living in Washington.
The drug is not harmful per se, but is dangerous when taken with alcohol.
I perceived a change in his behaviour.
She perceived that all was not well.
The patient was perceived to have difficulty in breathing.
This discovery was perceived as a major breakthrough.
She did not perceive herself as disabled.
They were widely perceived to have been unlucky.
What percentage of the population is/are overweight?
A high percentage of the female staff are part-time workers.
Interest rates are expected to rise by one percentage point (= a unit of one per cent).
Tax rates fell by 3.4 percentage points.
The figure is expressed as a percentage.
The results were analysed in percentage terms.
He gets a percentage for every car sold.
Overall these students rank in the 21st percentile on the tests—that is, they did worse than 79 per cent of all children taking the test.
a perceptible change/increase/decline/impact
The price increase has had no perceptible effect on sales.
Her foreign accent was barely perceptible.
the perceptible world
Income per head rose perceptibly.
It was perceptibly colder.
our perception of reality
visual perception
She showed great perception in her assessment of the family situation.
a campaign to change public perception of the police
There is a general public perception that standards in schools are falling.
a highly perceptive comment
It was very perceptive of you to notice that.
our innate perceptive abilities
perceptual skills
A robin was perching on the fence.
We perched on a couple of high stools at the bar.
She perched herself on the edge of the bed.
May I sit here?
Sit still, will you!
We sat talking for hours.
Come in and sit yourselves down.
She was seated at the head of the table.
Please be seated.
Please take a seat.
The hotel perched precariously on a steep hillside.
He watched the game from his precarious perch on top of the wall.
There was a bird perched on the roof.
a hotel perched high on the cliffs
Water had percolated down through the rocks.
It had percolated through to us that something interesting was about to happen.
percussion instruments
The track features Joey Langton on percussion.
a percutaneous injection
She peremptorily rejected the request.
a peremptory summons
The letter was peremptory in tone.
the perennial problem of water shortage
that perennial favourite, hamburgers
a perennially popular subject
in perfect condition
a perfect set of teeth
Well I'm sorry—but nobody's perfect (= used when sb has criticized you).
She speaks perfect English.
a perfect copy/fit/match
What perfect timing!
a perfect example of the painter's early style
the perfect crime (= one in which the criminal is never discovered)
The weather was perfect.
It was a perfect day for a picnic.
She's the perfect candidate for the job.
'Will 2.30 be OK for you?' 'Perfect, thanks.'
I don't know him—he's a perfect stranger.
'I have eaten' is the present perfect tense of the verb 'to eat', 'I had eaten' is the past perfect and 'I will have eaten' is the future perfect.
As a musician, she has spent years perfecting her technique.
physical perfection
The fish was cooked to perfection.
The novel achieves a perfection of form that is quite new.
His performance was perfection (= sth perfect).
They have been working on the perfection of the new model.
It's perfectly normal to feel like this.
It's perfectly good as it is (= it doesn't need changing).
You know perfectly well what I mean.
To be perfectly honest, I didn't want to go anyway.
He stood perfectly still until the danger had passed.
'Do you understand?' 'Perfectly.'
(old-fashioned) How perfectly awful!
The TV works perfectly now.
It fits perfectly.
The explosion perforated his eardrum.
a perforated line (= a row of small holes in paper, made so that a part can be torn off easily)
Tear the sheet of stamps along the perforations.
Excessive pressure can lead to perforation of the stomach wall.
steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs
Is there any evidence that performance-related pay actually improves performance?
a brilliant/polished/seasoned performer
He was a poor performer at school and left with no qualifications.
VW is the star performer of the motor industry this year.
a bottle of expensive perfume
We stock a wide range of perfumes.
the perfume counter of the store
She was wearing too much perfume.
the heady perfume of the roses
The garden was perfumed with the smell of roses.
She perfumed her bath with fragrant oils.
perfumed soap
a perfunctory nod/smile
They only made a perfunctory effort.
to nod/smile perfunctorily
'Are you going to come?' 'Perhaps. I'll see how I feel.'
Perhaps he's forgotten.
This is perhaps his best novel to date.
a change which could affect perhaps 20% of the population
'You could do it yourself.' 'Yeah, perhaps.'
Perhaps it would be better if you came back tomorrow.
I think perhaps you've had enough to drink tonight.
The country's economy is now in grave peril.
a warning about the perils of drug abuse
We came perilously close to disaster.
Guards patrol the perimeter of the estate.
a perimeter fence/track/wall
perinatal care
perinatal mortality
a period of consultation/mourning/uncertainty
The factory will be closed down over a 2-year period/a period of two years.
This compares with a 4% increase for the same period last year.
This offer is available for a limited period only.
All these changes happened over a period of time.
The aim is to reduce traffic at peak periods.
You can have it for a trial period (= in order to test it).
Which period of history would you most like to have lived in?
the post-war period
Like Picasso, she too had a blue period.
Most teenagers go through a period of rebelling.
the Jurassic period
'What do you have next period?' 'French.'
a free/study period (= for private study)
period pains
monthly periods
When did you last have a period?
The answer is no, period!
period costumes/furniture
Periodic checks are carried out on the equipment.
Mailing lists are updated periodically.
a peripatetic music teacher
peripheral information
Fund-raising is peripheral to their main activities.
the peripheral nervous system
peripheral vision
a peripheral device
monitors, printers and other peripherals
industrial development on the periphery of the town
The condition makes it difficult for patients to see objects at the periphery of their vision.
minor parties on the periphery of American politics
A family of four perished in the fire.
Early buildings were made of wood and have perished.
Me get married? Perish the thought!
perishable goods/foods
We were perished.
It's perishing outside!
I'm perishing!
I've had enough of this perishing job!
Perks offered by the firm include a car and free health insurance.
(figurative) Not having to get up early is just one of the perks of being retired.
He soon perked up when his friends arrived.
Share prices had perked up slightly by close of trading.
ideas for perking up bland food
to have a perm
to have your hair permed
a shampoo for permed hair
On my homepage you can click on the permalink to any of my blog posts.
a permanent job
permanent staff
They are now living together on a permanent basis.
The accident has not done any permanent damage.
a permanent fixture (= a person or an object that is always in a particular place)
The stroke left his right side permanently damaged.
She had decided to settle permanently in France.
The spoken word is immediate but lacks permanence.
We no longer talk of the permanence of marriage.
The skin of amphibians is permeable to water.
permeable rocks
The smell of leather permeated the room.
rainwater permeating through the ground
a belief that permeates all levels of society
Dissatisfaction among the managers soon permeated down to members of the workforce.
permissible levels of nitrates in water
It is not permissible for employers to discriminate on grounds of age.
You must ask permission for all major expenditure.
The school has been refused permission to expand.
No official permission has been given for the event to take place.
She took the car without permission.
poems reprinted by kind permission of the author
(formal) With your permission, I'd like to say a few words.
The publisher is responsible for obtaining the necessary permissions to reproduce illustrations.
permissive attitudes
permissive parents (= who allow their children a lot of freedom)
Radios are not permitted in the library.
There are fines for exceeding permitted levels of noise pollution.
We were not permitted any contact with each other.
Jim permitted himself a wry smile.
Visitors are not permitted to take photographs.
She would not permit herself to look at them.
(formal) Permit me to offer you some advice.
We hope to visit the cathedral, if time permits.
I'll come tomorrow, weather permitting (= if the weather is fine).
The password permits access to all files on the hard disk.
Cash machines permit you to withdraw money at any time.
a fishing/residence/parking, etc. permit
to apply for a permit
to issue a permit
The possible permutations of x, y and z are xyz, xzy, yxz, yzx, zxy and zyx.
In many countries education is still the prerogative of the rich.
the royal prerogative (= the special rights of a king or queen)
a woman with peroxide blonde hair
The perp stole a police car and got away.
to prepare a report
A hotel room is being prepared for them.
The college prepares students for a career in business.
I had no time to prepare.
The whole class is working hard preparing for the exams.
The police are preparing themselves for trouble at the demonstration.
I was preparing to leave.
The troops prepared themselves to go into battle.
He was in the kitchen preparing lunch.
remedies prepared from herbal extracts
Are the lines perpendicular to each other?
The staircase was almost perpendicular (= very steep).
The wall is a little out of the perpendicular.
to perpetrate a crime/fraud/massacre
violence perpetrated against women and children
the perpetrators of the crime
the perpetual noise of traffic
We lived for years in a perpetual state of fear.
How can I work with these perpetual interruptions?
He was elected perpetual president.
(humorous) She's a perpetual student.
We're all in a state of perpetual motion in this office (= we're always moving around or changing things).
to perpetuate injustice
This system perpetuated itself for several centuries.
Comics tend to perpetuate the myth that 'boys don't cry'.
They were perplexed by her response.
a perplexing problem
a perplexed expression
She looked perplexed.
Most of them just stared at her in perplexity.
the perplexities of life
Politics used to be the perquisite of the property-owning classes.
Try to persuade him to come.
Please try and persuade her.
She's always easily persuaded.
I'm sure he'll come with a bit of persuading.
I allowed myself to be persuaded into entering the competition.
It will be difficult to persuade them that there's no other choice.
She had persuaded herself that life was not worth living.
No one was persuaded by his arguments.
(formal) I am still not fully persuaded of the plan's merits.
Throughout history, people have been persecuted for their religious beliefs.
persecuted minorities
Why are the media persecuting him like this?
the victims of religious persecution
They showed great perseverance in the face of difficulty.
The only way to improve is through hard work and dogged perseverance.
Despite a number of setbacks, they persevered in their attempts to fly around the world in a balloon.
She persevered with her violin lessons.
You have to persevere with difficult students.
Why do you persist in blaming yourself for what happened?
She persisted in her search for the truth.
He persisted with his questioning.
'So, did you agree or not?' he persisted.
If the symptoms persist, consult your doctor.
His persistence was finally rewarded when the insurance company agreed to pay for the damage.
It was her sheer persistence that wore them down in the end.
the persistence of unemployment in the 1970s and 1980s
How do you deal with persistent salesmen who won't take no for an answer?
a persistent offender (= a person who continues to commit crimes after they have been caught and punished)
persistent rain
a persistent cough
They have persistently denied claims of illegal dealing.
persistently high interest rates
What sort of person would do a thing like that?
He's a fascinating person.
What is she like as a person?
He's just the person we need for the job.
I had a letter from the people who used to live next door.
I'm not really a city person (= I don't really like cities).
A certain person (= somebody that I do not wish to name) told me about it.
The price is $40 per person.
This vehicle is licensed to carry 4 persons. (= in a notice)
(law 法律) The verdict was murder by a person or persons unknown.
a salesperson
a spokesperson
Technical support is offered on a person-to-person basis.
a person-to-person call
His public persona is quite different from the family man described in the book.
a royal personage
personal effects/belongings/possessions
personal details (= your name, age, etc.)
Of course, this is just a personal opinion.
Coogan has run a personal best of just under four minutes.
The novel is written from personal experience.
Use stencils to add a few personal touches to walls and furniture.
All hire cars are for personal use only.
Having good personal relationships is the most important thing for me.
He was popular as much for his personal qualities as for his management skills.
The letter was marked 'Personal'.
I'd like to talk to you about a personal matter.
I try not to let work interfere with my personal life.
She's a personal friend of mine (= not just somebody I know because of my job).
The President made a personal appearance at the event.
I shall give the matter my personal attention.
We offer a personal service to all our customers.
a personal pension plan (= a pension organized by a private company for one particular person)
Try to avoid making personal remarks.
There's no need to get personal!
Nothing personal (= I do not wish to offend you), but I do have to go now.
personal cleanliness/hygiene
She won the race with a personal best of 2 minutes 22.
He leaned towards her and she stiffened at this invasion of her personal space.
All the towels were personalized with their initials.
All our courses are personalized to the needs of the individual.
The mass media tends to personalize politics.
a highly personalized service
(BrE) a personalized number plate (= on a car)
His wife has a strong personality.
The children all have very different personalities.
He maintained order by sheer force of personality.
There are likely to be tensions and personality clashes in any social group.
We need someone with lots of personality to head the project.
personalities from the world of music
a TV/sports personality
Their son is a real personality.
The problem with many modern buildings is that they lack personality.
Personally, I prefer the second option.
'Is it worth the effort?' 'Speaking personally, yes.'
All letters will be answered personally.
Do you know him personally (= have you met him, rather than just knowing about him from other people)?
He was personally criticized by inspectors for his incompetence.
You will be held personally responsible for any loss or breakage.
I'm sure she didn't mean it personally.
Have you had any dealings with any of the suspects, either personally or professionally?
I'm afraid he took your remarks personally.
skilled personnel
sales/technical/medical/security/military, etc. personnel
the personnel department/manager
She works in personnel.
Personnel is/are currently reviewing pay scales.
She was the personification of elegance.
the personification of autumn in Keats's poem
These children personify all that is wrong with the education system.
He is kindness personified.
The river was personified as a goddess.
a global perspective
Try to see the issue from a different perspective.
a report that looks at the education system from the perspective of deaf people
His experience abroad provides a wider perspective on the problem.
She was aware that she was losing all sense of perspective.
Try to keep these issues in perspective.
Talking to others can often help to put your own problems into perspective.
It is important not to let things get out of perspective.
We learnt how to draw buildings in perspective.
The tree on the left is out of perspective.
a perspective of the whole valley
a perspicacious remark
Beads of perspiration stood out on his forehead.
Her skin was damp with perspiration.
Perspiration cools the skin in hot weather.
It didn't take much persuasion to get her to tell us where he was.
After a little gentle persuasion, he agreed to come.
She has great powers of persuasion.
politicians of all persuasions
every shade of religious persuasion
persuasive arguments
He can be very persuasive.
They argue persuasively in favour of a total ban on handguns.
to pursue a goal/an aim/an objective
We intend to pursue this policy with determination.
She wishes to pursue a medical career.
to pursue legal action
We have decided not to pursue the matter.
She left the theatre, hotly pursued by the press.
Police pursued the car at high speed.
the pursuit of happiness/knowledge/profit
She travelled the world in pursuit of her dreams.
We drove away with two police cars in pursuit (= following).
I galloped off on my horse with Rosie in hot pursuit (= following quickly behind).
outdoor/leisure/artistic pursuits
a pert reply
a pert nose
pert features
Living conditions are vastly different from those pertaining in their country of origin.
Those laws no longer pertain.
the laws pertaining to adoption
a pertinent question/fact
Please keep your comments pertinent to the topic under discussion.
temperature perturbations
Her sudden appearance did not seem to perturb him in the least.
a perturbed young man
She didn't seem perturbed at the change of plan.
A copy of the report is available for you to peruse at your leisure.
The agreement was signed after careful perusal.
a pervading mood of fear
the sadness that pervades most of her novels
The entire house was pervaded by a sour smell.
a pervasive smell of damp
A sense of social change is pervasive in her novels.
a perverse decision (= one that most people do not expect and think is wrong)
She finds a perverse pleasure in upsetting her parents.
Do you really mean that or are you just being deliberately perverse?
She seemed perversely proud of her criminal record.
He refused to attend out of sheer perversity.
sexual perversion
sadomasochistic perversions
the perversion of justice
Her account was a perversion of the truth.
Some scientific discoveries have been perverted to create weapons of destruction.
Some people believe that television can pervert the minds of children.
a sexual pervert
sexual acts, normal and perverted
She was having difficulty following his perverted logic.
They clearly take a perverted delight in watching others suffer.
pesky insects
There is a mood of pessimism in the company about future job prospects.
You don't have to be a pessimist to realize that we're in trouble.
They appeared surprisingly pessimistic about their chances of winning.
a pessimistic view of life
I think you're being far too pessimistic.
pest control
insect/plant/garden pests
That child is being a real pest.
Journalists pestered neighbours for information.
He has been pestering her with phone calls for over a week.
The horses were continually pestered by flies.
The kids kept pestering me to read to them.
vegetables grown without the use of pesticides
crops sprayed with pesticide
Do you have any pets?
a pet dog/hamster, etc.
a family/domestic pet
pet food
a pet shop (= where animals are sold as pets)
She's the teacher's pet.
What's wrong, pet?
Be a pet (= be kind) and post this letter for me.
his pet subject/theory/project, etc.
a PET scan
The campaign petered out for lack of support.
The road petered out into a dirt track.
a petition against experiments on animals
The workers are getting up (= starting) a petition for tighter safety standards.
Local residents have successfully petitioned against the siting of a prison in their area.
The group intends to petition Parliament for reform of the law.
Parents petitioned the school to review its admission policy.
to petition for divorce
a petite blonde
a petrified expression
I'm petrified of snakes.
They were petrified with fear (= so frightened that they were unable to move or think).
She was petrified that the police would burst in at any moment.
a petrified forest
petrology
petrochemical
the petrochemical industry
to fill a car up with petrol
to run out of petrol
the petrol tank of a car
an increase in petrol prices
leaded/unleaded petrol
petrol-blue eyes
petty squabbles
petty crime/theft (= that is not very serious)
a petty criminal/thief
a petty bureaucrat/official (= who does not have much power or authority, although they might pretend to)
How could you be so petty?
heavy petting (= sexual activity which avoids penetration )
a pH of 7.5
to test the pH level of the soil
phallic symbols
the phantom of his dead father
a phantom horseman
phantom profits
phantom illnesses
a phantom pregnancy (= a condition in which a woman seems to be pregnant but in fact is not)
pharmaceutical products
the pharmaceutical industry
the development of new pharmaceuticals
the pharmaceuticals industry
We had to wait for the pharmacist to make up her prescription.
They sell vitamin supplements at the pharmacist's.
pharmacological research
during the first/next/last phase
the initial/final phase of the project
a critical/decisive phase
the design phase
His anxiety about the work was just a passing phase.
She's going through a difficult phase.
The wedding marked the beginning of a new phase in Emma's life.
the phased withdrawal of troops from the area
Closure of the hospitals was phased over a three-year period.
The new tax will be phased in over two years.
Subsidies to farmers will be phased out by next year.
phatic communication
to be/have/do a PhD
Anne Thomas, PhD
(BrE) to shoot pheasant
(NAmE) to hunt pheasant
roast pheasant
cultural/natural/social phenomena
Globalization is a phenomenon of the 21st century.
The product has been a phenomenal success.
This product has been phenomenally successful.
phenomenally bad weather
Phew, it's hot in here!
Phew, I'm glad that's all over.
philanthropic work
the Berlin Philharmonic (Orchestra)
the Greek philosopher Aristotle
He seems to be a bit of a philosopher.
the philosophical writings of Kant
philosophic debate
He was philosophical about losing and said that he'd be back next year to try again.
This kind of evidence is philosophically unconvincing.
She took the bad news philosophically.
moral philosophy
the philosophy of science
a professor of philosophy
a degree in philosophy
the philosophy of Jung
Her philosophy of life is to take every opportunity that presents itself.
philistine attitudes
the philistinism of the tabloid press
philanthropy
He spent the evening philosophizing on the meaning of life.
a phlegmatic temperament
He has a phobia about flying.
claustrophobia
xenophobia
cat phobics
claustrophobic
xenophobic
phobic anxiety
to rise like a phoenix from the ashes (= to be powerful or successful again)
I have to make a phone call.
The phone rang and Pat answered it.
They like to do business by phone/over the phone.
His phone must be switched off.
I hadn't got my phone with me.
a phone bill
to pick up the phone
to put the phone down
He left the phone off the hook as he didn't want to be disturbed.
dictaphone
xylophone
anglophone
francophone
I was just phoning up for a chat.
He phoned to invite me out for dinner.
Someone phone for an ambulance!
Could you phone back later?
He phoned home, but there was no reply.
Don't forget to phone New York.
For reservations, phone 020 281 3964.
Phone them up and find out when they are coming.
Three people have phoned in sick already this morning.
Listeners are invited to phone in with their comments.
I need you to phone the story in before five.
£1 million in damages has been paid out to victims of phone hacking.
She spoke with a phoney Russian accent.
telephonic
phonetic
phonological analysis
It's all phooey!
phosphate-free washing powder
the photic zone
a colour/black-and-white photo
a photo album (= a book for keeping your photos in)
I'll take a photo of you.
I went on a photo shoot to Rio with him.
photosynthesis
photogenic
He photobombed the actress as she was posing for the press.
A fan decided to drop a photobomb on the reporter.
The president joined the team for a photocall.
photochemical smog
Make as many photocopies as you need.
a photocopied letter
Can you get these photocopied for me by 5 o'clock?
I seem to have spent most of the day photocopying.
The comments in pencil haven't photocopied very well.
I'm not very photogenic.
aerial/satellite photographs
colour photographs
Please enclose a recent passport-sized photograph of yourself.
I spent the day taking photographs of the city.
He has photographed some of the world's most beautiful women.
a beautifully photographed book (= with good photographs in it)
She refused to be photographed nude.
They were photographed playing with their children.
Some people just don't photograph well.
a wildlife/fashion/portrait photographer
photographic equipment/film/images
They produced a photographic record of the event.
His paintings are almost photographic in detail.
colour/flash/aerial, etc. photography
fashion photography by David Burn
Her hobbies include hiking and photography.
the director of photography (= the person who is in charge of the actual filming of a film/movie, programme, etc.)
Did you see the film about Antarctica? The photography was superb!
I'm sure this picture has been photoshopped.
a memorable phrase
She was, in her own favourite phrase, 'a woman without a past'.
a carefully phrased remark
I agree with what he says, but I'd have phrased it differently.
Her order was phrased as a suggestion.
The phrasing of the report is ambiguous.
the physical geography of Scotland
mentally and physically handicapped
physically and emotionally exhausted
I felt physically sick before the exam.
I don't find him physically attractive.
They were physically prevented from entering the building.
It's physically impossible to finish by the end of the week.
a nuclear physicist
a degree in physics
particle/nuclear/theoretical physics
the laws of physics
a school physics department
to study the physics of the electron
the department of anatomy and physiology
plant physiology
the physiology of the horse
the physiological effect of space travel
He has the physique of a rugby player.
a powerful physique
to play the piano
playing jazz on the piano
piano music
a piano teacher/lesson
Ravel's piano concerto in G
a concert pianist
a jazz pianist
tortilla chips dipped in a picante sauce
a picaresque novel
It's been like Piccadilly Circus in this house all morning.
a football/cricket/rugby pitch
The rugby tour was a disaster both on and off the pitch.
A basic sense of rhythm and pitch is essential in a music teacher.
a frenetic pitch of activity
Speculation has reached such a pitch that a decision will have to be made immediately.
an aggressive sales pitch
the candidate's campaign pitch
Each company was given ten minutes to make its pitch.
The explosion pitched her violently into the air.
(figurative) The new government has already been pitched into a crisis.
The ball pitched a yard short.
With a cry she pitched forward.
The sea was rough and the ship pitched and rolled all night.
They have pitched their prices too high.
The test was pitched at too low a level for the students.
The new software is being pitched at banks.
Orange juice is to be pitched as an athlete's drink.
Representatives went to Japan to pitch the company's newest products.
We were pitching against a much larger company for the contract.
You pitched that note a little flat.
The song was pitched too low for my voice.
We could pitch our tent in that field.
They pitched camp for the night near the river.
Everyone pitched in with the work.
Local companies pitched in with building materials and labour.
We all pitched in $10 to buy her a gift.
She started pitching into me as soon as I arrived.
I rolled up my sleeves and pitched into cleaning the kitchen.
You can't just pitch up and expect to get in without a ticket.
Pick a number from one to twenty.
He picked his words carefully.
Have I picked a bad time to talk to you?
He has been picked to play in this week's game.
to pick grapes
flowers freshly picked from the garden
to go blackberry picking
She picked bits of fluff from his sweater.
He picked the nuts off the top of the cake.
to pick your nose (= put your finger inside your nose to remove dried mucus )
to pick your teeth (= use a small sharp piece of wood to remove pieces of food from your teeth)
The dogs picked the bones clean (= ate all the meat from the bones).
The company picked up the tab for his hotel room.
The government will continue to pick up college fees for some students.
He tried to undo the knot by picking at it with his fingers.
Snipers were picking off innocent civilians.
Pick off all the dead leaves.
She was picked on by the other girls because of her size.
He picked on two of her statements which he said were untrue.
She was picked out from dozens of applicants for the job.
He picked out the ripest peach for me.
See if you can pick me out in this photo.
He picked out the tune on the piano with one finger.
Read the play again and pick out the major themes.
a sign painted cream, with the lettering picked out in black
Pick over the lentils and remove any little stones.
I picked through the facts of the case.
Trade usually picks up in the spring.
The wind is picking up now.
Sales have picked up 14% this year.
Let's pick up where we left off yesterday.
All I seem to do is cook, wash and pick up after the kids.
The phone rang and rang and nobody picked up.
I'll pick you up at five.
The bus picks up passengers outside the airport.
A lifeboat picked up survivors.
He goes to clubs to pick up girls.
He was picked up by police and taken to the station for questioning.
Try this—it will pick you up.
She went over to the crying child and picked her up.
to pick up bad habits
Here's a tip I picked up from my mother.
She picked up Spanish when she was living in Mexico.
Scientists can now pick up early signs of the disease.
I picked up my coat from the cleaners.
We were able to pick up the BBC World Service.
We managed to pick up a few bargains at the auction.
I seem to have picked up a terrible cold from somewhere.
I picked up £30 in tips today.
to pick up the scent of an animal
We can pick up the motorway in a few miles.
He picks up this theme again in later chapters of the book.
I picked up the faint sound of a car in the distance.
Will you pick up all your toys?
to pick up a room
She failed to pick up on the humour in his remark.
If I could just pick up on a question you raised earlier.
I knew he would pick me up on that slip sooner or later.
He just picked himself up and went on running.
(figurative) She didn't waste time feeling sorry for herself—she just picked herself up and carried on.
Take your pick (= choose).
The winner gets first pick of the prizes.
She was his pick for best actress.
We're reviewing the pick of this month's new books.
I think we got the pick of the bunch (= the best in the group).
picks and shovels
a pick-and-mix programme of study
(figurative) This deal would offer the best possible pick-me-up to the town's ailing economy.
pick-your-own strawberries
cotton pickers
Five pickets were arrested by police.
I was on picket duty at the time.
a mass picket of the factory
a picket fence
200 workers were picketing the factory.
Striking workers picketed outside the gates.
Fire crews refused to cross the picket line.
mass picketing of the factory
There were only slim pickings to be made at the fair.
There are rich pickings to be had by investing in this sort of company.
The strike affecting the country's largest airline is producing easy pickings for smaller companies.
pickled cabbage/herring/onions
casual pickups
a pickup in the housing market
Goods are delivered not later than noon on the day after pickup.
A group of kids started a pickup game of basketball on the street outside.
It's a nice day. Let's go for a picnic.
We had a picnic beside the river.
Let's eat our picnic by the lake.
a picnic lunch
a picnic basket
No picnicking allowed (= on a sign)
a pictorial account/record of the expedition
pictorial traditions
A picture of flowers hung on the wall.
The children were drawing pictures of their pets.
She wanted a famous artist to paint her picture (= a picture of herself).
a book with lots of pictures in it
The picture shows the couple together on their yacht.
Have you got any pictures of your trip?
harrowing television pictures of the famine
satellite pictures
The picture isn't very clear tonight.
The writer paints a gloomy picture of the economy.
The police are trying to build up a picture of what happened.
I have a vivid picture of my grandfather smiling down at me when I was very small.
Just a few years ago the picture was very different.
The overall picture for farming is encouraging.
The movie won nine Academy Awards, including Best Picture.
(especially NAmE) I believe her husband's in pictures (= he acts in movies or works in the movie industry).
Shall we go to the pictures tonight?
Just to put you in the picture—there have been a number of changes here recently.
I can still picture the house I grew up in.
We found it hard to picture him as the father of teenage sons.
When he did not come home she pictured him lying dead on the roadside somewhere.
I tried to picture what it would be like to live alone.
Before the trial Liz had been pictured as a frail woman dominated by her husband.
She is pictured here with her parents.
The team is pictured setting off on their European tour.
a picture-postcard village
a picturesque cottage/setting/village
a picturesque description of life at sea
The inn is picturesquely situated on the banks of the river.
The novel has been picturized twice.
It was one of the few song picturizations that created magic with both music and visuals.
the sound of pigeons cooing
I tried to get my message across in my pidgin Italian.
a slice of apple pie
Help yourself to some more pie.
a pie dish
a steak and kidney pie
This talk of moving to Australia is all just pie in the sky.
a piecemeal approach to dealing with the problem
piecemeal changes
The reforms were implemented piecemeal.
The arrow pierced his shoulder.
He pierced another hole in his belt with his knife.
to have your ears/nose, etc. pierced (= to have a small hole made in your ears/nose, etc. so that you can wear jewellery there)
(figurative) She was pierced to the heart with guilt.
The knife pierced through his coat.
Sirens pierced the silence of the night.
Shafts of sunlight pierced the heavy mist.
They failed to pierce the Liverpool defence.
She looked at me with piercing blue eyes.
a piercing look
a piercing shriek
She has such a piercing voice.
piercing sadness
The animal is covered in long piercing spines.
His eyes were piercingly blue.
The weather remained piercingly cold.
She has a tongue piercing.
piffling amounts
a pig farmer
Pigs were grunting and squealing in the yard.
Arrogant pig!
Don't be such a pig!
The greedy pig's eaten all the biscuits!
She made a pig of herself with the ice cream (= ate too much).
He's a real male chauvinist pig (= a man who does not think women are equal to men).
I had a whole box of chocolates and pigged the lot!
Don't give me cakes—I'll just pig myself.
They pigged out on pizza.
If you can't come, leave a note in my pigeonhole.
He has been pigeonholed as a children's writer.
Plans for a new school have been pigeonholed.
Give me a piggyback, Daddy!
a piggyback ride
to ride piggyback
She wore her hair in pigtails.
He referred to them as dirty pikey scum.
a pile of books/clothes/bricks
He arranged the documents in neat piles.
She looked in horror at the mounting pile of letters on her desk.
a pile of sand
piles of dirty washing
I have got piles of work to do.
He walked out leaving a pile of debts behind him.
a deep-pile carpet
She piled the boxes one on top of the other.
The clothes were piled high on the chair.
Snow was piled up against the door.
The sofa was piled high with cushions.
He piled his plate with as much food as he could.
He piled as much food as he could onto his plate.
She piled everything into her suitcase.
The coach finally arrived and we all piled on.
The weight just piled on while I was abroad.
The team piled on the points in the first half of the game.
I've been piling on the pounds (= I have put on weight) recently.
Don't pile on the drama!
Things aren't really that bad—she does tend to pile it on.
The German team piled on the pressure in the last 15 minutes.
He felt his boss was piling too much work on him.
Work always piles up at the end of the year.
Three people died in a multiple pile-up in freezing fog.
He was caught pilfering.
She regularly pilfered stamps from work.
pilferage of goods
Certain types of goods are preferred by pilferers.
We know that pilfering goes on.
Muslim pilgrims on their way to Mecca
Christian pilgrims visiting Lourdes
to go on/make a pilgrimage
His grave has become a place of pilgrimage.
a vitamin pill
the contraceptive pill
to be/go on the pill
The rebels went looting and pillaging.
The town had been pillaged and burned.
Works of art were pillaged from churches and museums.
They brought back horrific accounts of murder and pillage.
a pillar of smoke/rock
a pillar of the Church
a pillar of society
She is a pillar of strength in a crisis.
the central pillar of this theory
a pillion passenger/seat
to ride pillion
He was regularly pilloried by the press for his radical ideas.
She lay back against the pillows.
pillow talk (= conversations in bed between lovers)
He lay back on the grass using his backpack as a pillow.
She lay on the grass, her head pillowed on her arms.
an airline pilot
a fighter pilot
The accident was caused by pilot error.
The plane was piloted by the instructor.
The captain piloted the boat into a mooring.
She piloted a bill on the rights of part-time workers through parliament.
a pilot project/study/survey
a pilot episode (= of a radio or television series)
Pimp your car with stylish custom wheels!
I would love to pimp the songs up.
pimply skin
a pimply youth
a diamond pin
He supports the group and wears its pin on his lapel.
a 2-pin plug
She pinned the badge onto her jacket.
A message had been pinned to the noticeboard.
Pin all the pieces of material together.
She always wears her hair pinned back.
They pinned him against a wall and stole his wallet.
He grabbed her arms and pinned them to her sides.
They found him pinned under the wreckage of the car.
Two men pinned him down until the police arrived.
I need the up-to-date sales figures but I can never pin him down at the office.
It's difficult to pin her down to fixing a date for a meeting.
The cause of the disease is difficult to pin down precisely.
No one would admit responsibility. They all tried to pin the blame on someone else.
You can't pin this one on me—I wasn't even there!
fresh pineapple
a tin of pineapple chunks
pineapple juice
a pair of pincers
My sister's always pinching me and it really hurts.
He pinched the baby's cheek playfully.
(figurative) She had to pinch herself to make sure she was not dreaming.
Pinch the nostrils together between your thumb and finger to stop the bleeding.
a pinched nerve in the neck
These new shoes pinch.
Who's pinched my pen?
Higher interest rates are already pinching the housing industry.
I was pinched for dangerous driving.
Pinch in on the home page.
You can pinch out to zoom in on the map.
She gave him a pinch on the arm to wake him up.
a pinch of salt
Gordon pinch ran for Gomez.
pine forests
pine needles
a Scots pine
a pine table
She pined for months after he'd gone.
After his wife died, he just pined away.
She was pining for the mountains of her native country.
I'll ping it to you later.
His arms were pinioned to his sides.
They were pinioned against the wall.
pale pink roses
She went bright pink with embarrassment.
the pink pound (= money spent by homosexuals as an influence in the economy)
She was dressed in pink.
The bedroom was decorated in pale pinks.
pink-collar workers
a pinky ring (= worn on the smallest finger)
the pinnacle of her career
Cartoons showed the Minister as a long-nosed Pinocchio.
He was able to pinpoint on the map the site of the medieval village.
The report pinpointed the areas most in need of help.
The pilots bombed strategic targets with pinpoint accuracy.
His eyes narrowed to two small pinpricks.
to have pins and needles
a pinstripe suit
a pinstriped suit
a pinstriped official (= who is wearing a pinstriped suit)
a pint of beer/milk
We'd better get a couple of extra pints (= of milk) tomorrow.
Add half a pint of cream.
Do you want to go for a pint later?
a pioneer in the field of microsurgery
a computer pioneer
a pioneer aviator
a pioneer design (= one that introduces new ideas, methods, etc.)
the pioneer spirit
a new technique pioneered by surgeons in a London hospital
pioneering work on infant mortality
the pioneering days of radio
pious acts
pious sentiments
Such reforms seem likely to remain little more than pious hopes.
an apple/orange pip
She pipped her rival for the gold medal.
He was pipped at/to the post for the top award.
hot and cold water pipes
lead/plastic pipes
a leaking gas pipe
Copper pipe is sold in lengths.
to smoke a pipe
He puffed on his pipe.
pipe tobacco
to pipe oil across the desert
Water is piped from the reservoir to the city.
The speech was piped over a public address system.
Passengers were piped aboard ship at the start of the cruise.
a prize for piping and drumming
Outside a robin piped.
The cake had 'Happy Birthday' piped on it.
The person next to me piped up with a silly comment.
'I know the answer,' piped up a voice at the back of the room.
ten metres of lead piping
a uniform with gold piping
a meadow/rock/tree pipit
The tart flavour of the cranberries adds piquancy.
The situation has an added piquancy since the two men are also rivals in love.
When he realized nobody was listening to him, he left in a fit of pique.
She couldn't help feeling a little piqued by his lack of interest.
software piracy
a pirate ship
a pirate edition
software pirates
a pirate radio station
pirated computer games
She pirouetted across the stage.
Why don't you just piss off and leave me alone?
Her attitude really pisses me off.
to go for a piss
That band really was piss-poor.
I'm pissed off with the way they've treated me.
an automatic pistol
a starting pistol (= used to signal the start of a race)
We dug a deep pit in the yard.
The body had been dumped in a pit.
a chalk/gravel pit
pit closures
(BrE) He went down the pit (= started work as a miner ) when he left school.
a peach pit
the corn pit
He had a sudden sinking feeling in the pit of his stomach.
The surface of the moon is pitted with craters.
Smallpox scars had pitted his face.
pitted olives
Lawyers and accountants felt that they were being pitted against each other.
a chance to pit your wits against the world champions (= in a test of your intelligence)
Her heart went pit-a-pat.
I could hear the pit-a-pat of feet in the corridor.
The demonstration escalated into a pitched battle with the police.
a pitcher of water
a piteous cry/sight
the potential pitfalls of buying a house
the pith of her argument
pithily expressed
The refugees were in a pitiable state.
a pitiable lack of talent
I could only feel pity for what they were enduring.
a look/feeling/surge of pity
I took pity on her and lent her the money.
(formal) I beg you to have pity on him.
I don't want your pity.
It's a pity that you can't stay longer.
'I've lost it!' 'Oh, what a pity.'
What a pity that she didn't tell me earlier.
It seems a pity to waste this food.
This dress is really nice. Pity it's so expensive.
Oh, that's a pity.
It would be a great pity if you gave up now.
He pitied people who were stuck in dead-end jobs.
Compulsive gamblers are more to be pitied than condemned.
I pity her having to work such long hours.
The horse was a pitiful sight (= because it was very thin or sick).
a pitiful effort/excuse/performance
The dog was whining pitifully.
She was pitifully thin.
The fee is pitifully low.
a pitiless killer/tyrant
a scorching, pitiless sun
to pay sb a pittance
to work for a pittance
a pitying look/smile
West Africa was the pivot of the cocoa trade.
The pivot on which the old system turned had disappeared.
Windows that pivot from a central point are easy to clean.
She pivoted around and walked out.
a pivotal role in European affairs
a ham and mushroom pizza
Is there any pizza left?
We need someone with youth, glamour and pizzazz.
Grosvenor Pl.
They were carrying placards and banners demanding that he resign.
a placating smile
The concessions did little to placate the students.
a placatory remark/smile/gesture
Is this the place where it happened?
I can't be in two places at once.
I can't remember all the places we visited in Thailand.
I used to live in York and I'm still fond of the place.
The police searched the place.
We were looking for a place to eat.
Let's get out of this place!
a meeting place
The town has many excellent eating places.
(formal) churches and other places of worship
He can usually be contacted at his place of work.
He broke his arm in three places.
The paint was peeling off the wall in places.
She had marked her place with a bookmark.
Excuse me, I seem to have lost my place.
Come and sit here—I've saved you a place.
I don't want to lose my place in the line.
Would you like to change places with me so you can see better?
I've set a place for you at the table.
He is assured of his place in history.
Accurate reporting takes second place to lurid detail.
My father believed that people should know their place (= behave according to their social position).
It's not your place (= your role) to give advice.
Anecdotes have no place in (= are not acceptable in) an academic essay.
She's been offered a place at Bath to study Business.
There are very few places left on the course.
She has won a place in the Olympic team.
He lost his place in the first team.
Is there a place on the form to put your address?
Put it back in its place when you've finished with it.
These streets are no place for a child to be out alone at night.
What about dinner at my place?
I'm fed up with living with my parents, so I'm looking for a place of my own.
He finished in third place.
The number is correct to three decimal places.
66 Portland Place
Of course I was upset—just put yourself in my place.
At first she tried to take charge of the meeting but I soon put her in her place.
The film festival takes place in October.
We may never discover what took place that night.
She couldn't attend the meeting so her assistant took her place.
Computers have taken the place of typewriters in most offices.
Take your places for dinner.
He placed his hand on her shoulder.
A bomb had been placed under the seat.
The parking areas in the town are few, but strategically placed.
to place sb in command
She was placed in the care of an uncle.
His resignation placed us in a difficult position.
The job places great demands on me.
Great emphasis is placed on education.
They place a high value on punctuality.
I've seen her before but I just can't place her.
His accent was impossible to place.
to place a bet/an order
We placed an advertisement for a cleaner in the local paper.
The children were placed with foster parents.
The agency placed about 2 000 secretaries last year.
I would place her among the top five tennis players in the world.
Nursing attracts people who place relationships high on their list of priorities.
He was placed fifth in last Saturday's race.
(BrE) My horse has been placed several times (= it was among the first three or four to finish the race).
(NAmE) His horse placed in the last race (= it was among the first three to finish the race, usually in second place).
the placebo effect (= the effect of taking a placebo and feeling better)
a job placement service
placement with a foster family
The third year is spent on placement in selected companies.
The course includes a placement in Year 3.
This procedure ensures correct placement of the catheter.
placental mammals
a placid baby/horse
the placid waters of the lake
He needs a high placing in today's qualifier to reach the final.
There were accusations of plagiarism.
a text full of plagiarisms
He was accused of plagiarizing his colleague's results.
an outbreak of plague
the plague of AIDS
a plague of locusts/rats, etc.
to be plagued by doubt
Financial problems are plaguing the company.
The team has been plagued by injury this season.
Rock stars have to get used to being plagued by autograph hunters.
He made it plain that we should leave.
She made her annoyance plain.
The facts were plain to see.
It was a rip-off, plain and simple.
a politician with a reputation for plain speaking
a plain but elegant dress
plain food
The interior of the church was plain and simple.
plain yogurt (= without sugar or fruit)
covers in plain or printed cotton
Write on plain paper (= without lines).
You don't need any special skills for this job, just plain common sense.
the flat coastal plain of Thassos
the Great Plains
plain stupid/wrong
officers in plain clothes
plain-clothes police officers
The sea was plainly visible in the distance.
The lease plainly states that all damage must be paid for.
She had no right to interfere in what was plainly a family matter.
Plainly (= obviously) something was wrong.
To put it plainly, he's a crook.
She was plainly dressed and wore no make-up.
a plaintive cry/voice
She wore her hair in plaits.
Do you have any plans for the summer?
Your best plan (= the best thing to do) would be to go by car.
There's been a change of plan.
We can't change our plans now.
Both sides agreed to a detailed plan for keeping the peace.
The government has announced plans to create one million new training places.
a development/business/peace, etc. plan
a five-point plan
a three-year plan
We need to make plans for the future.
a plan of action/campaign
Let's hope everything will go according to plan.
a plan of the museum
a street plan of the city
The architect is drawing up plans for the new offices.
a seating plan (= showing where each person will sit, for example at a dinner)
a floor plan (= showing how furniture is arranged)
a savings plan
to plan a trip
Everything went exactly as planned.
We planned the day down to the last detail.
A meeting has been planned for early next year.
to plan for the future
I've been planning how I'm going to spend the day.
They planned that the two routes would connect.
We hadn't planned on going anywhere this evening.
They plan to arrive some time after three.
We're planning a trip to France in the spring—are you interested?
to plan an essay/a garden
a well-planned campaign
Plan out your route before you go.
She has her career all planned out.
If Plan A fails, go to Plan B.
She left by plane for Berlin.
a plane crash
I caught the next plane to Dublin.
The plane took off an hour late.
The plane landed at Geneva.
the horizontal/vertical plane
to reach a higher plane of achievement
a plane surface
Plane the surface down first.
Then plane the wood smooth.
two planeloads of refugees
the planets of our solar system
the planet Earth/Venus/Mars
the battle to save the planet
He thinks being a father is easy. What planet is he on?
a planetary system
the plangent sound of the harpsichord
a plank of wood
a wooden plank
The central plank of the bill was rural development.
Recent tragedies did little to decrease the popularity of planking.
curriculum planners
a journey planner
a wall planner
financial planning
All plants need light and water.
flowering/garden/indoor plants
a tomato/potato plant
the animal and plant life of the area
a nuclear reprocessing plant
Japanese car plants
a chemical plant
The company has been investing in new plant and equipment.
to plant and harvest rice
Plant these shrubs in full sun.
a densely planted orange grove
The field had been ploughed and planted with corn.
They planted a flag on the summit.
He planted himself squarely in front of us.
He claims that the drugs were planted on him.
He planted the first seeds of doubt in my mind.
a banana plantation
conifer/forestry plantations
a tea planter
The Tree Council promotes tree planting.
These bushes are fairly recent plantings.
an old house with crumbling plaster and a leaking roof
a plaster bust of Julius Caesar
(BrE) She broke her leg a month ago and it's still in plaster.
She plastered herself in suntan lotion.
We were plastered from head to foot with mud.
His wet hair was plastered to his head.
Her bedroom wall was plastered with photos of him.
She had photos of him plastered all over her bedroom wall.
The next day their picture was plastered all over the newspapers.
They took a plaster cast of the teeth for identification purposes.
to be/get plastered
The pipes should be made of plastic.
a sheet of clear plastic
the plastic industry
Do they take plastic?
a plastic bag/cup/toy
Clay is a plastic substance.
TV game show hosts with their banal remarks and plastic smiles
The plastic arts include sculpture, pottery and painting.
sandwiches on a plate
a pile of dirty plates
dinner plates
a plate of sandwiches
two large plates of pasta
Try the seafood plate.
The tanks were mainly constructed of steel plates.
She had a metal plate inserted in her arm.
A brass plate beside the door said 'Dr Alan Tate'.
The cutlery is plate, not solid silver.
the armadillo's protective shell of bony plates
the Pacific plate
Earthquakes are caused by two tectonic plates bumping into each other.
The book includes 55 colour plates.
See plate 4.
a printing plate
It's important for world leaders to step up to the plate and honor their commitments on global warming.
a silver ring plated with gold
The walls of the vault were plated with steel.
Inflation has reached a plateau.
Unemployment has at last plateaued out.
She ate three platefuls of spaghetti.
(BrE) What platform does it go from?
(BrE) The train now standing at platform 1 is for Leeds.
The Edinburgh train is waiting at platform 4.
The train for Chicago is on track 9.
Coming onto the platform now is tonight's conductor, Jane Glover.
Representatives of both parties shared a platform (= they spoke at the same meeting).
an oil/a gas platform
a launch platform (= for spacecraft )
a viewing platform giving stunning views over the valley
They are campaigning on an anti-immigration platform.
She used the newspaper column as a platform for her feminist views.
a multimedia platform
a mobile gaming platform
platform shoes
armour plating
platonic love
Their relationship is strictly platonic.
a silver platter
I'll have the fish platter (= several types of fish and other food served on a large plate).
His work won him plaudits from the critics.
Her story sounded perfectly plausible.
The only plausible explanation is that he forgot.
She was a plausible liar.
He argued very plausibly that the claims were true.
He thought she was play-acting but in fact she had really hurt herself.
They lost to Chicago in the play-offs.
a playful puppy
He gave her a playful punch on the arm.
The resort is a playground of the rich and famous.
the Liverpool Playhouse
(BrE) a pack of (playing) cards
(NAmE) a deck of (playing) cards
the school playing fields
a Spiderman playsuit
She was an intelligent woman who refused to be a rich man's plaything.
The teddy bear was his favourite plaything.
With so much homework to do, her playtime is now very limited.
a downtown shopping plaza
Lloyd's Bank plc
She made an impassioned plea for help.
a plea to industries to stop pollution
He refused to listen to her tearful pleas.
a plea of guilty/not guilty
to enter a guilty plea
He was charged with murder, but got off on a plea of insanity.
He reached a plea bargain with the authorities.
She pleaded with him not to go.
I was forced to plead for my child's life.
pleading eyes
He pleaded to be allowed to see his mother one more time.
'Do something!' she pleaded.
to plead guilty/not guilty
How do you plead?(= said by the judge at the start of the trial)
He advised his client to plead insanity (= say that he/she was mentally ill and therefore not responsible for his/her actions).
They hired a top lawyer to plead their case.
He pleaded family problems for his lack of concentration.
She appeared on television to plead the cause of political prisoners everywhere.
The United Nations has pleaded for a halt to the bombing.
He refused to give in to her pleadings.
He looked pleadingly at her.
a pleasant climate/evening/place
What a pleasant surprise!
to live in pleasant surroundings
music that is pleasant to the ear
a pleasant environment to work in
It was pleasant to be alone again.
a pleasant young man
a pleasant smile/voice/manner
Please try to be pleasant to our guests.
a pleasantly cool room
I was pleasantly surprised by my exam results.
'Can I help you?' he asked pleasantly.
She remembered the pleasantness of the evening.
After exchanging the usual pleasantries, they got down to serious discussion.
Two coffees, please.
Quiet please!
Please could I leave early today?
Please don't leave me here alone.
Please, please don't forget.
Please, I don't understand what I have to do.
'Would you like some help?' 'Yes, please.'
'Coffee?' 'Please.'
Children, please! I'm trying to work.
John! Please!
Oh, please! You cannot be serious.
You can't please everybody.
He's a difficult man to please.
There's just no pleasing some people (= some people are impossible to please).
I did it to please my parents.
She's always very eager to please.
You may stay as long as you please.
She always does exactly as she pleases.
I'm free now to live wherever I please.
'I don't think I'll bother finishing this.' 'Please yourself.'
She was very pleased with her exam results.
The boss should be pleased with you.
I'm really pleased that you're feeling better.
I'm pleased to hear about your news.
He did not look too pleased when I told him.
We are always pleased to be able to help.
I was pleased to hear you've been promoted.
Aren't you pleased to see me?
(especially BrE) Pleased to meet you (= said when you are introduced to sb).
Thank you for your invitation, which I am very pleased to accept.
I am pleased to inform you that the book you ordered has arrived.
He was looking very pleased with himself.
a pleasing design
The new building was pleasing to the eye.
She had a pleasingly direct manner.
a pleasurable experience
We do everything we can to make your trip pleasurable.
He sipped his coffee pleasurably.
to read for pleasure
He takes no pleasure in his work.
She had the pleasure of seeing him look surprised.
(formal) We request the pleasure of your company at the marriage of our daughter Lisa.
It gives me great pleasure to introduce our guest speaker.
Are you in Paris on business or pleasure?
the pleasure and pains of everyday life
the simple pleasures of the countryside
It's a pleasure to meet you.
'Thanks for doing that.' 'It's a pleasure.'
'May I sit here?' 'Yes, with pleasure.'
a pleated skirt
a pleather jacket
plebeian tastes
to hold a plebiscite on the country's future system of government
a pledge of support
Will the government honour its election pledge not to raise taxes?
Management has given a pledge that there will be no job losses this year.
Japan has pledged $100 million in humanitarian aid.
The government pledged their support for the plan.
We all had to pledge allegiance to the flag (= state that we are loyal to our country).
The group has pledged to continue campaigning.
The group has pledged that they will continue campaigning.
They were all pledged to secrecy.
The government has pledged itself to root out corruption.
Do you think you'll pledge this semester?
My brother pledged Sigma Nu.
The new committee holds its first plenary session this week.
The Council has plenary powers to administer the agreement.
plenipotentiary powers
a plentiful supply of food
In those days jobs were plentiful.
Evidence is plentifully available.
She kept them plentifully supplied with gossip.
plenty of eggs/money/time
'Do we need more milk?' 'No, there's plenty in the fridge.'
They always gave us plenty to eat.
We had plenty to talk about.
We have plenty more of them in the warehouse.
There's plenty more paper if you need it.
The rope was plenty long enough to reach the ground.
We talked plenty about our kids.
You can be married and still be plenty lonely.
Everyone is happier in times of plenty.
We had food and drink in plenty.
There's plenty room for all of you!
her pliant body
She lay pliant in his arms.
He was deposed and replaced by a more pliant successor.
Ferries ply across a narrow strait to the island.
Buses ply regularly to and from these places.
canals plied by gondolas and steam boats
The tailor delicately plied his needle.
He plied me with questions from the moment he arrived.
four-ply knitting yarn
a pair of pliers
the plight of the homeless
The African elephant is in a desperate plight.
a pair of plimsolls
Our horses plodded down the muddy track.
We plodded on through the rain.
I watched her plodding her way across the field.
He plonked the books down on the table.
Just plonk your bag anywhere.
He just plonked himself down and turned on the TV.
She sat down with a plonk.
The frog plopped back into the water.
A tear plopped down onto the page she was reading.
Can you just plop some ice in my drink?
a conventional plot about love and marriage
The book is well organized in terms of plot.
She bought a small plot of land to build a house on.
They were accused of plotting against the state.
Military officers were suspected of plotting a coup.
They were plotting to overthrow the government.
The earthquake centres had been plotted on a world map.
We carefully plotted each patient's response to the drug on a chart.
First, plot the temperature curve on the graph.
a tightly-plotted thriller
ploughed fields
The money was all ploughed back into the company.
A truck ploughed into the back of the bus.
The government has ploughed more than $20 billion into building new schools.
No one was listening to her, but she ploughed on regardless.
She ploughed her way through the waiting crowds.
The plane ploughed through the trees.
I had to plough through dozens of legal documents.
The paths get all ploughed up by motorbikes.
a clever marketing ploy
It was all a ploy to distract attention from his real aims.
She plucked out a grey hair.
expertly plucked eyebrows
to pluck the strings of a violin
He took the guitar and plucked at the strings.
Police plucked a drowning girl from the river yesterday.
Survivors of the wreck were plucked to safety by a helicopter.
She was plucked from obscurity to instant stardom.
He plucked the wallet from the man's grasp.
I plucked an orange from the tree.
I finally plucked up the courage to ask her for a date.
The child kept plucking at his mother's sleeve.
(figurative) The wind plucked at my jacket.
It takes a lot of pluck to do what she did.
a three-pin plug
I'll have to change the plug on my hairdryer.
Can I use this plug for my iron?
the plug from the computer to the printer
She pulled out the plug and let the water drain away.
She took the plug of cotton wool from her ear.
He managed to get in a plug for his new book.
He plugged the hole in the pipe with an old rag.
A cheaper range of products was introduced to plug the gap at the lower end of the market.
She came on the show to plug her latest album.
Is the printer plugged in?
All our computers are plugged into the main network.
The DVD player plugs into the back of the television.
The company has doubled its profits since plugging into lucrative overseas markets.
plug-and-play peripherals
a plug-in kettle
a plug-in graphics card
a plum tree
She's landed a plum job at the BBC.
She spent her life plumbing the mysteries of the human psyche.
He was standing plumb in the middle of the road.
He's plumb crazy.
a plume of smoke
a black hat with an ostrich plume
a plumed helmet
Share prices plummeted to an all-time low.
Her spirits plummeted at the thought of meeting him again.
The jet plummeted into a row of houses.
a plummy accent
a short, plump woman
a plump face
plump cushions
plump tomatoes
He leaned forward while the nurse plumped up his pillows.
The troops crossed the country, plundering and looting as they went.
The abbey had been plundered of its valuables.
Only a small amount of the money that he plundered from his companies has been recovered.
She lost her balance and plunged 100 feet to her death.
The earthquake plunged entire towns over the edge of the cliffs.
Stock markets plunged at the news of the coup.
The track plunged down into the valley.
The horse plunged and reared.
(figurative) His heart plunged (= because of a strong emotion).
The pool was declared open and eager swimmers plunged in.
She was about to plunge into her story when the phone rang.
He's always plunging in at the deep end (= becoming involved in difficult situations without being well enough prepared).
She plunged the knife deep into his chest.
The country plunged deeper into recession.
The news plunged them into deep depression.
There was a flash of lightning and the house was plunged into darkness.
The calm water ends there and the river begins a headlong plunge.
a dramatic plunge in profits
The company is planning a deeper plunge into the commercial market.
He took the plunge into the deep end.
She went for a plunge.
a plunging neckline
He plunked the package down on the desk.
the plunk, plunk of the banjo
The plural of 'child' is 'children'.
The verb should be in the plural.
Most plural nouns in English end in 's'.
a plural society (= one with more than one racial, religious, etc. group)
cultural pluralism
a pluralist democracy
a pluralist approach to politics
a plurality of influences
In order to be elected, a candidate needs only a plurality of the votes cast.
Two plus five is seven.
The cost is £22, plus £1 for postage.
We have to fit five of us plus all our gear in the car.
Knowledge of French is a plus in her job.
There were a lot of pluses in the performance.
He put a plus instead of a minus.
The work will cost £10 000 plus.
The temperature is plus four degrees.
One of the hotel's plus points is that it is very central.
On the plus side, all the staff are enthusiastic.
I got B plus (B+) in the test.
I've got too much on at work. Plus my father is not well.
a pair of plus fours
'How many people were there?' 'Plus-minus thirty.'
red plush armchairs
a plush hotel
plywood furniture
an interview with the PM
a pneumatic tyre
pneumatic tools
PNG results in smaller files for faster transfer.
View a PNG or GIF in an open-source browser.
GIF and PNG images are already compressed.
Radio Netherlands, PO Box 222, Hilversum
poached salmon
The elephants are poached for their tusks.
The company poached the contract from their main rivals.
Several of our employees have been poached by a rival firm.
I hope I'm not poaching on your territory (= doing sth that is actually your responsibility).
a pock-marked face
The district is pock-marked with caves.
a coat pocket
I put the note in my pocket.
Turn out your pockets (= empty your pockets).
Take your hands out of your pockets!
a pocket dictionary (= one that is small enough to fit in your pocket)
Information about safety procedures is in the pocket in front of you (= on a plane).
We have holidays to suit every pocket.
He had no intention of paying for the meal out of his own pocket.
The Foundation is reputed to have very deep pockets (= to have a lot of money).
There are still a few isolated pockets of resistance to the new regime.
a pocket of air
She paid for the drink and pocketed the change without counting it.
He regularly charges passengers more than the normal fare and pockets the difference.
Last year, she pocketed over $1 million in advertising contracts.
Many foreign goods are too expensive for American pocketbooks.
The increase is likely to hit the pocketbooks of consumers.
a pocketful of coins
a pea pod
a vanilla pod
a pod of adult dolphins
To listen to the podcast, click on the link below.
The US has an estimated 60 million podcasters.
Podcasting could turn into an audio form of blogging.
podgy arms
poetic language
Byron's Poetical Works
There is a poetic quality to her playing.
a poignant image/moment/memory, etc.
Her face was a poignant reminder of the passing of time.
the poignancy of parting and separation
Of particular poignancy was the photograph of their son with his sisters, taken the day before he died.
to be on point duty
(figurative, NAmE) the President's point man on education (= the person who is responsible for it)
More information on healthy foods should be provided at the point of sale.
Medical care is still free at the point of use.
Why can't you ever see my point of view?
There are a number of different points of view on this issue.
From my point of view (= as far as I was concerned), the party was a complete success.
These statistics are important from an ecological point of view.
The book is written from the father's point of view.
The officer was shot dead at point-blank range.
a point-blank refusal
She fired point-blank at his chest.
He refused point-blank to be photographed.
a pointed chin
pointed teeth
a pointed instrument
a pointed comment/remark
His words were a pointed reminder of her position.
She yawned and looked pointedly at her watch.
Here are some pointers on how to go about the writing task.
The surge in car sales was regarded as an encouraging pointer to an improvement in the economy.
pointy ears
(humorous) Don't try to argue when you find yourself at the pointy end of a knife (= when sb is threatening you with a knife).
Seurat, the French pointillist
We searched until we knew it would be pointless to continue.
He argued pointlessly with his parents.
the pointlessness of war
The hawk poised in mid-air ready to swoop.
He was poising himself to launch a final attack.
She poised the javelin in her hand before the throw.
Tina was tense, her hand poised over the telephone.
He stopped writing and looked at me, pen poised.
The cat crouched in the grass, poised to jump.
The cup was poised on the edge of the chair.
(figurative) The world stood poised between peace and war.
The economy is poised for recovery.
Kate is poised to become the highest-paid supermodel in the fashion world.
He is a remarkably poised young man.
Some mushrooms contain a deadly poison.
How did he die? Was it poison?
The dog was killed by rat poison (= poison intended to kill rats ).
to hunt with poison arrows
bombs containing poison gas
the poison of racial hatred
a poisoned arrow
Someone had been poisoning his food.
Large sections of the river have been poisoned by toxic waste from factories.
His comment served only to poison the atmosphere still further.
She succeeded in poisoning their minds against me.
a series of deaths caused by carbon monoxide poisoning
At least 10 000 children are involved in accidental poisonings every year.
The police suspected poisoning.
The rats were controlled by poisoning.
poisonous chemicals/plants
This gas is highly poisonous.
The leaves of certain trees are poisonous to cattle.
poisonous snakes
the poisonous atmosphere in the office
She poked him in the ribs with her elbow.
She poked her elbow into his ribs.
I'm sick of being poked and prodded by doctors.
She got up and poked the fire (= to make it burn more strongly).
He poked his head around the corner to check that nobody was coming.
Someone had poked a message under the door.
Don't poke her eye out with that stick!
The end of the cable was left poking out of the wall.
Clumps of grass poked up through the snow.
The kids poked holes in the ice with sticks.
The police spent the day poking around in his office but found nothing.
(figurative) We've had journalists poking around and asking a lot of questions.
He poked at the spaghetti with a fork.
to give the fire a poke
He gave me a poke in the ribs to wake me up.
I prefer something with a bit more poke.
He maintained a poker face.
a poky little room
the polar regions
polar explorers
polar attraction
The parents' position is often the polar opposite of the child's.
Public opinion has polarized on this issue.
The issue has polarized public opinion.
to polarize a magnet
the growing polarity between the left and right wings of the party
Polaroid sunglasses
a tent pole
a ski pole
a curtain pole
the North/South Pole
Their opinions were at opposite poles of the debate.
Her speech was memorable for its polemic rather than its substance.
A man was arrested by the police and held for questioning.
Get out of the house or I'll call the police.
Police suspect a local gang.
a police car
Hundreds of police in riot gear struggled to control the violence.
The border will be policed by UN officials.
The profession is policed by its own regulatory body.
Police Constable Jordan
The suspect was taken to the nearest police station for questioning.
the present government's policy on education
The company has adopted a firm policy on shoplifting.
We have tried to pursue a policy of neutrality.
US foreign/domestic policy
They have had a significant change in policy on paternity leave.
a policy document
She is following her usual policy of ignoring all offers of help.
(saying) Honesty is the best policy.
Check the terms of the policy before you sign.
community policing
furniture/floor/shoe/silver polish
wax polish
I give it a polish now and again.
She played the cello with the polish of a much older musician.
Polish shoes regularly to protect the leather.
He polished his glasses with a handkerchief.
The statement was carefully polished and checked before release.
The hotel has polished up its act (= improved its service) since last year.
He polished off the remains of the apple pie.
a floor polisher
Please be polite to our guests.
We were all too polite to object.
I don't know how to make polite conversation.
The performance was greeted with polite applause.
'Bum' is not a word we use in polite company.
It seemed politic to say nothing.
a monarch without political power
He was a political prisoner (= one who was put in prison because he was thought to be harmful to the state).
a political debate/party/leader
What are your political sympathies?
She became very political at university.
I'm not a political animal (= person who is interested in politics).
I suspect that he was dismissed for political reasons.
a politically sensitive issue
politically motivated crimes
It makes sense politically as well as economically.
the highly politicized issue of unemployment
The rural population has become increasingly politicized in recent years.
the politicization of education
party politics
local politics
He's thinking of going into politics (= trying to become a Member of Parliament, Congress, etc.)
a major figure in British politics
I don't want to get involved in office politics.
the internal politics of the legal profession
sexual politics (= concerning relationships of power between the sexes)
His politics are extreme.
a degree in Politics
A politics of the future has to engage with new ideas.
a polka-dot tie
to carry out/conduct a poll
A recent poll suggests some surprising changes in public opinion.
The final result of the poll will be known tomorrow.
Thursday is traditionally the day when Britain goes to the polls (= when elections are held).
Polls close (= voting ends) at 9 p.m.
Labour is ahead in the poll.
They gained 20% of the poll.
They polled 39% of the vote in the last election.
The Republicans have polled well (= received many votes) in recent elections.
Over 50% of those polled were against the proposed military action.
flowers pollinated by bees/the wind
Polling has been heavy since 8 a.m.
a week before polling day
the exhaust fumes that are polluting our cities
The river has been polluted with toxic waste from local factories.
(figurative) a society polluted by racism
air/water pollution
to reduce levels of environmental pollution
beaches covered with pollution
a polo-neck sweater
You can wear a polo neck with that jacket.
polygamy
polyphonic
a cotton and polyester shirt
a polygamous marriage/society
a polyglot nation
The substance polymerizes to form a hard plastic.
polystyrene cups
a polythene bag
foods that are high in polyunsaturated fats
foods that are high in polyunsaturates (= polyunsaturated fats )
polyvalent managerial skills
all the pomp and ceremony of a royal wedding
a pompous official
The prince's manner was informal, without a trace of pomposity.
I don't want to go to some poncey restaurant—I just want something to eat!
a fish pond
She pondered over his words.
They were left to ponder on the implications of the announcement.
The senator pondered the question for a moment.
They are pondering whether the money could be better used elsewhere.
'I wonder why,' she pondered aloud.
She watched the cow's ponderous progress.
That cheese pongs!
Each guest had to pony up $40 for the meal.
a pontoon bridge
to go pony-trekking
dog poo
I want to do a poo!
He walked through—and vanished. Poof! Like that.
It stinks! Pooh!
'I might lose my job for this.' 'Oh, pooh, nobody will care.'
Does the hotel have a pool?
relaxing by the pool
freshwater pools
a rock pool (= between rocks by the sea)
The body was lying in a pool of blood.
a pool of light
a pool of cars used by the firm's sales force
a pool car
a pool of cheap labour
a pool table
to shoot (= play) pool
He does the pools every week.
a pools winner
The students work individually, then pool their ideas in groups of six.
Police forces across the country are pooling resources in order to solve this crime.
lazing at the poolside
a poolside bar
dog poop on the sidewalk
The dog just pooped in the kitchen!
We aim to help the poorest families.
It's among the poorer countries of the world.
They provided food and shelter for the poor.
Have you heard about poor old Harry? His wife's left him.
It's hungry—the poor little thing.
'I have stacks of homework to do.' 'Oh, you poor thing.'
the party's poor performance in the election
to be in poor health
It was raining heavily and visibility was poor.
poor food/light/soil
to have a poor opinion of sb (= to not think well of sb)
a poor swimmer
a poor judge of character
She's a good teacher but a poor manager.
a poor sailor (= sb who easily gets sick at sea)
a country poor in natural resources
soil poor in nutrients
The short story is often considered to be a poor relation to the novel.
a poorly attended meeting (= at which there are not many people)
poorly designed
The job is relatively poorly paid.
Our candidate fared poorly in the election (= did not get many votes).
She felt poorly.
The poorness of the land makes farming impossible.
She pootled along in her old car.
rock, pop and soul
The cork came out of the bottle with a loud pop.
Hi, Pop!
the sound of corks popping
She jumped as someone popped a balloon behind her.
I'll pop over and see you this evening.
Why don't you pop in (= visit us) for a drink next time you're in the area?
He popped his head around the door and said hello.
I'll pop the books in (= deliver them) on my way home.
Pop your bag on here.
The window opened and a dog's head popped out.
An idea suddenly popped into his head.
(computing 计算机) The dialog box pops up every time I try to close the browser.
Her eyes nearly popped out of her head when she saw them.
She's been popping pills for months.
I'll just pop on a sweater and meet you outside.
a pop song
a pop band/group
a pop star
a pop concert
pop culture
a pop-up birthday card
a pop-up menu/window
The airline opened a pop-up shop to promote its winter sale.
an advertising pop-up
The designers opened a pop-up in the main shopping area as part of the fashion event.
pop. 200 000
the election of a new pope
Pope Francis
a visit from the Pope
poppy fields/seeds
She's the most poptastic pop star of the lot.
He had the support of large sections of the local populace.
The populace at large is/are opposed to sudden change.
One third of the world's population consumes/consume two thirds of the world's resources.
The entire population of the town was at the meeting.
countries with ageing populations
Muslims make up 55% of the population.
an increase in population
areas of dense/sparse population (= where many/not many people live)
The population is increasing at about 6% per year.
Japan has a population of nearly 130 million.
the adult/working/rural, etc. population of the country
a hugely/immensely popular singer
This is one of our most popular designs.
Skiing has become very popular recently.
These policies are unlikely to prove popular with middle-class voters.
I'm not very popular with my parents (= they are annoyed with me) at the moment.
(ironic) 'Our dog got into the neighbour's garden again!' 'You'll be popular.'
popular music/culture/fiction
the popular press
a popular misconception
Contrary to popular belief, women cause fewer road accidents than men.
Popular opinion was divided on the issue.
By popular demand, the tour has been extended by two weeks.
The party still has widespread popular support.
the increasing popularity of cycling
Her novels have gained in popularity over recent years.
to win/lose popularity with the students
The programme did much to popularize little-known writers.
He spent his life popularizing natural history.
a popularly held belief
the UN Conference on Environment and Development, popularly known as the 'Earth Summit'
a popularly elected government
a heavily/densely/sparsely/thinly populated country
The island is populated largely by sheep.
(figurative) the amazing characters that populate her novels
The French began to populate the island in the 15th century.
a party of populists
a populist leader
one of America's most populous states
a porcelain figure
His lawyers are poring over the small print in the contract.
roast pork
pork chops
a leg of pork
to tell porkies
a porno movie
pornographic movies/magazines
child pornography
porous material/rocks/surfaces
Water covers a large proportion of the earth's surface.
Loam is a soil with roughly equal proportions of clay, sand and silt.
The proportion of regular smokers increases with age.
A higher proportion of Americans go on to higher education than is the case in Britain.
A proportion of the land is used for agriculture.
The proportion of small cars on America's roads is increasing.
A high proportion of five-year-olds have teeth in poor condition.
The proportion of men to women in the college has changed dramatically over the years.
The basic ingredients are limestone and clay in the proportion 2:1.
The room is very long in proportion to (= relative to) its width.
You haven't drawn the figures in the foreground in proportion.
The head is out of proportion with the body.
an impressive building with fine proportions
Always try to keep a sense of proportion (= of the relative importance of different things).
This method divides the task into more manageable proportions.
a food shortage that could soon reach crisis proportions
a room of fairly generous proportions
fishing ports
Rotterdam is a major port.
a naval port
The ship spent four days in port.
They reached port at last.
port of entry (= a place where people or goods can enter a country)
the port side
the modem port
Is there a problem with apps ported from another platform?
how to port your number to a new mobile phone
My first port of call in town was the bank.
a portable TV
(figurative) a portable loan/pension (= that can be moved if you change banks, jobs, etc.)
portable software
The new light cover increases this model's portability.
a business/news/shopping portal
a portentous sign
a portentous remark
the night porter
The hotel porter will get you a taxi.
an investment/a share portfolio
the defence portfolio
She resigned her portfolio.
He was asked to join as a minister without portfolio (= one without responsibility for a particular government department).
a portfolio of wines
a substantial/significant portion of the population
Only a small portion of the budget is spent on books.
The central portion of the bridge collapsed.
a generous portion of meat
She cut the cake into six small portions.
You must accept a portion of the blame for this crisis.
The factory portions and packs over 12 000 meals a day.
Land was portioned out among the clans.
a portmanteau course
'Depression' is a portmanteau condition.
He had his portrait painted in uniform.
a full-length portrait
a portrait painter
a portrait of life at the French court
Throughout the trial, he portrayed himself as the victim.
Her father will be portrayed by Sean Connery.
The article examines the portrayal of gay men in the media.
He is best known for his chilling portrayal of Hannibal Lecter.
to pose a threat/challenge/danger/risk
The task poses no special problems.
The delegates posed for a group photograph.
The gang entered the building posing as workmen.
I saw him out posing in his new sports car.
He adopted a relaxed pose for the camera.
He was charged with possessing a shotgun without a licence.
The gallery possesses a number of the artist's early works.
I'm afraid he doesn't possess a sense of humour.
What possessed him to say such a thing?
She has convinced herself that she is possessed by the devil.
The manuscript is just one of the treasures in their possession.
The gang was caught in possession of stolen goods.
The possession of a passport is essential for foreign travel.
On her father's death, she came into possession of (= received) a vast fortune.
You cannot legally take possession of the property (= start using it after buying it) until three weeks after the contract is signed.
personal possessions
The ring is one of her most treasured possessions.
to win/get/lose possession of the ball
She was charged with possession.
a posh hotel
You look very posh in your new suit.
a posh accent/voice
They live in the posh part of town.
They pay for their children to go to a posh school.
(BrE) to talk posh
a posho mill
It is possible to get there by bus.
Would it be possible for me to leave a message for her?
This wouldn't have been possible without you.
Try to avoid losing your temper if at all possible (= if you can).
Use public transport whenever possible (= when you can).
It's just not physically possible to finish all this by the end of the week.
We spent every possible moment on the beach.
a possible future president
the possible side effects of the drug
Frost is possible, although unlikely, at this time of year.
It's just possible that I gave them the wrong directions.
With the possible exception of the Beatles, no other band has become so successful so quickly.
There are several possible explanations.
It was the best possible surprise anyone could have given me.
Don't leave your packing until the last possible moment.
If you enjoy the coast and the country, you'll get the best of both worlds on this walk.
Out of all the people interviewed, there are only five possibles.
It was possibly their worst performance ever.
She found it difficult to get on with her, possibly because of the difference in their ages.
'Will you be around next week?' 'Possibly.'
You can't possibly mean that!
Could you possibly open that window?
I will come as soon as I possibly can.
They tried everything they possibly could to improve the situation.
I can't possibly tell you that!
You can't possibly carry all those bags.
'Let me buy it for you.' 'That's very kind of you, but I couldn't possibly (= accept).'
From his position on the cliff top, he had a good view of the harbour.
Where would be the best position for the lights?
Is everybody in position?
He took up his position by the door.
a sitting/kneeling/lying position
Keep the box in an upright position.
Make sure that you are working in a comfortable position.
My arms were aching so I shifted (my) position slightly.
to be in a position of power/strength/authority
What would you do in my position?
This put him and his colleagues in a difficult position.
The company's financial position is not certain.
I'm afraid I am not in a position to help you.
to declare/reconsider/shift/change your position
the party's position on education reforms
She has made her position very clear.
My parents always took the position that early nights meant healthy children.
the position of women in society
the company's dominant position in the world market
Wealth and position (= high social status) were not important to her.
He held a senior position in a large company.
I should like to apply for the position of Sales Director.
United's 3–0 win moved them up to third position.
What position does he play?
They attacked the enemy positions at dawn.
Large television screens were positioned at either end of the stadium.
She quickly positioned herself behind the desk.
The company is now well positioned to compete in foreign markets.
Most religions posit the existence of life after death.
The team has made some positional changes because two players are injured.
a positive attitude/outlook
the power of positive thought
She tried to be more positive about her new job.
On the positive side, profits have increased.
The report ended on a positive note.
We must take positive steps to deal with the problem.
It will require positive action by all in the industry.
We've had a very positive response to the idea.
to make a positive contribution to a discussion
His family have been a very positive influence on him.
Overseas investment has had a positive effect on exports.
I can't be positive about what time it happened.
She was positive that he had been there.
'Are you sure?' 'Positive.'
He has a positive genius for upsetting people.
It was a positive miracle that we survived.
We have no positive evidence that she was involved.
(formal) This is proof positive that he stole the money.
a positive pregnancy test
The athlete tested positive for steroids.
to be HIV positive
a positive charge
the positive terminal of a battery
Take your weaknesses and translate them into positives.
The instructions were not just confusing, they were positively misleading.
Very few of those interviewed spoke positively about their childhood.
Thinking positively is one way of dealing with stress.
Investors reacted positively to news of the takeover.
Her attacker has now been positively identified by police.
positively charged protons
a positivist approach
I'll be there if poss.
as soon as poss
a little posse of helpers
Some parents are too possessive of their children.
Jimmy's very possessive about his toys.
possessive pronouns (= yours, theirs, etc.)
'That's mine!' she said possessively.
I couldn't stand his jealousy and possessiveness.
'Ours' and 'their' are possessives.
He is now the proud possessor of a driving licence.
There is now no possibility that she will make a full recovery.
He refused to rule out the possibility of a tax increase.
It is not beyond the bounds of possibility that we'll all meet again one day.
Bankruptcy is a real possibility if sales don't improve.
What had seemed impossible now seemed a distinct possibility.
to explore/consider/investigate a wide range of possibilities
to exhaust all the possibilities
Selling the house is just one possibility that is open to us.
The course offers a range of exciting possibilities for developing your skills.
The house is in a bad state of repair but it has possibilities.
I'll send the original to you by post.
I'll put the information in the post to you tomorrow.
My application got lost in the post.
There was a lot of post this morning.
Have you opened your post yet?
to catch/miss the post
The parcel came in this morning's post.
Payment should be sent by return of post (= immediately).
an academic/a government post
to take up a post
to resign (from) a post
We will be creating 15 new posts next year.
The company has been unable to fill the post.
He has held the post for three years.
an overseas post
a police/customs/military post
an observation post
The guards were ordered not to leave their posts.
corner posts (= that mark the corners of a sports field)
The ball hit the post and bounced in.
The forum does not allow posts from non-members.
Have you posted off your order yet?
Is it OK if I post the cheque to you next week?
Is it OK if I post you the cheque next week?
Could you post this letter for me?
Let yourself out and post the keys through the letter box.
She's been posted to Washington for two years.
Most of our employees get posted abroad at some stage.
Guards have been posted along the border.
A copy of the letter was posted on the noticeboard.
The company posted a $1.1 billion loss.
A snow warning was posted for Ohio.
The aircraft and its crew were posted missing.
The results will be posted on the Internet.
The photos have been provided by fans who post on the message board.
She was released after posting $100 cash bond and her driver's license.
a post hoc explanation
Where's the main post office?
You can buy your stamps at the post office.
a post office counter
He works for the Post Office.
a postgraduate
a post-Impressionist
the post-1945 period
Information will be sent post-free to any interested readers.
to depart post-haste
to do/conduct/carry out a post-mortem
The post-mortem on the child revealed that she had been poisoned.
to hold a post-mortem on the party's election defeat
post-operative complications/pain/care
a post-paid envelope
post-production editing
The movie is now in post-production and will be released next month.
the post-war years
an increase in postage rates
How much was the postage on that letter?
(BrE) All prices include postage and packing.
(NAmE) All prices include postage and handling.
your full postal address
the postal service/system
postal charges
postal bookings
a good postal service
We had a huge postbag on the subject from our readers.
colourful postcards of California
Send us a postcard from Venice!
Send your answers on a postcard to the above address.
election posters
a poster campaign (= an attempt to educate people about sth by using posters)
posters of her favourite pop stars
He is the poster child for incompetent government.
Their music has been preserved for posterity.
Posterity will remember him as a great man.
postgraduate students
a postgraduate course
Students are required to be in school by 8.30.
Any high school student could tell you the answer.
The school has over 850 pupils.
Since she was a schoolgirl she had dreamed of going on the stage.
a posthumous award for bravery
an overseas posting
The card was postmarked Tokyo 9th March.
In 'the house on the corner', 'on the corner' is a postmodifier.
postnatal care
The game has already been postponed three times.
We'll have to postpone the meeting until next week.
It was an unpopular decision to postpone building the new hospital.
Riots led to the postponement of local elections.
They postulated a 500-year lifespan for a plastic container.
a comfortable/relaxed posture
upright/sitting/supine postures
Good posture is essential when working at the computer.
Back pains can be the result of bad posture.
The government has adopted an aggressive posture on immigration.
a pot of jam
a yogurt pot
a coffee pot
a pepper pot
a teapot
Is there any more tea in the pot?
They drank a pot of coffee.
pot smoking
He took a pot at the neighbour's cat with his air rifle.
He potted the black to take a 7–3 lead.
Will you peel the potatoes for me?
roast/boiled/baked/fried potatoes
the potency of desire
If you keep a medicine too long, it may lose its potency.
a potent drug
a very potent alcoholic brew
a potent argument
a potent force
potential customers
a potential source of conflict
a potential prime minister
First we need to identify actual and potential problems.
a potentially dangerous situation
the potential for change
The European marketplace offers excellent potential for increasing sales.
All children should be encouraged to realize their full potential.
She has great potential as an artist.
He has the potential to become a world-class musician.
The house has a lot of potential.
We often underestimate our potentialities.
to go potholing
a magic/love potion
(humorous) I've tried all sorts of drugs, creams, pills and potions.
a chicken potjie
a potpourri of tunes
Somebody took a potshot at him as he drove past.
(figurative) The newspapers took constant potshots at (= criticized) the president.
potted plants
a potted history of England
I spent the day pottering around the house.
Roman pottery
a piece of pottery
a jug made of blue-glazed pottery
a pottery class
The kids are driving me potty!
a potty-mouthed comedian
a tobacco pouch
She kept her money in a pouch around her neck.
to keep poultry
poultry farming
Eat plenty of fish and poultry.
The lion crouched ready to pounce.
The muggers pounced on her as she got out of the car.
Rooney pounced on the loose ball and scored.
His comments were pounced upon by the press.
a ten-pound note
a pound coin
I've spent £25 on food today.
What would you do if you won a million pounds?
the strength/weakness of the pound (against other currencies)
The pound closed slightly down at $1.534.
half a pound of butter
They cost two dollars a pound.
I've lost six and a half pounds since I started my diet.
Heavy rain pounded on the roof.
Someone was pounding at the door.
The factory's machinery pounded away day and night.
She pounded him with her fists.
She pounded along the corridor after him.
Her heart was pounding with excitement.
The blood was pounding (= making a beating noise) in his ears.
Her head began to pound.
a pounding headache
The seeds were pounded to a fine powder.
The area is still being pounded by rebel guns.
Rock music was pounding out from the jukebox.
to pound out a tune on the piano
to carry extra poundage
a three-pounder (= a fish, for example, that weighs 3lb)
an eighteen-pounder
We were awoken by a pounding at the door.
There was a pounding in his head.
The boat took a pounding in the gale.
(figurative) The team took a pounding (= were badly defeated).
Pour the sauce over the pasta.
Although I poured it carefully, I still managed to spill some.
Tears poured down his cheeks.
Thick black smoke was pouring out of the roof.
Will you pour the coffee?
Shall I pour?
I was in the kitchen, pouring out drinks.
I've poured a cup of tea for you.
I've poured you a cup of tea.
The rain continued to pour down.
It's pouring outside.
(BrE) It's pouring with rain.
(NAmE) It's pouring rain outside.
Letters of complaint continue to pour in.
Commuters came pouring out of the station.
The government has poured millions into the education system.
The whole story then came pouring out.
She poured out her troubles to me over a cup of coffee.
Our campaign's main purpose is to raise money.
The purpose of the book is to provide a complete guide to the university.
A meeting was called for the purpose of appointing a new treasurer.
The experiments serve no useful purpose (= are not useful).
The building is used for religious purposes.
These gifts count as income for tax purposes.
For the purposes of this study, the three groups have been combined.
Volunteer work gives her life (a sense of) purpose.
He has enormous confidence and strength of purpose.
He pouted angrily.
Her lips pouted invitingly.
models pouting their lips for the camera
Her lips were set in a pout of annoyance.
pouty lips
conditions of abject/extreme poverty
to alleviate/relieve poverty
Many elderly people live in poverty.
There is a poverty of colour in her work.
A third of the population is living at or below the poverty line.
a POW camp
chilli powder
lumps of chalk crushed to (a) fine white powder
The snow was like powder.
A wide range of cleaning fluids and powders is available.
The mustard is sold in powder form.
She powdered her face and put on her lipstick.
powdered milk
powdered chalk
her powdered cheeks
a light fall of powdery snow
powdery cheeks
The aim is to give people more power over their own lives.
He has the power to make things very unpleasant for us.
to have sb in your power (= to be able to do what you like with sb)
to take/seize/lose power
The present regime has been in power for two years.
The party came to power at the last election.
They are hoping to return to power.
a power struggle between rival factions within the party
It is not within my power (= I am unable or not in a position) to help you.
I will do everything in my power to help you.
He had lost the power of speech.
The drug may affect your powers of concentration.
He had to use all his powers of persuasion.
At 26, he is at the height of his powers and ranked fourth in the world.
The Secretary of State has the power to approve the proposals.
The powers of the police must be clearly defined.
The president has the power of veto over all new legislation.
world powers
an allied/enemy power
economic power
air/sea power (= military strength in the air/at sea)
purchasing power
the power of the media
parent power
The ship was helpless against the power of the storm.
It was a performance of great power.
He hit the ball with as much power as he could.
the sheer physical power of the man
nuclear/wind/solar power
engine power
They've switched off the power.
a power failure
4 to the power of 3 is 43 (= 4 × 4 × 4 = 64).
the power of a microscope/telescope
the powers of darkness (= the forces of evil)
The aircraft is powered by a jet engine.
He powered through the water.
She powered her way into the lead.
He powered his header past the goalie.
We were told to power down at 9.45.
Log off or power down your system.
Do not power off or reboot in the middle of the update.
Power off your PC.
overhead power lines
political power play
a coal-fired power station
a power-down of the whole building
The internal clock and date were not stored after power-down.
Does the computer beep on power-up?
a powered wheelchair
a solar-powered calculator
an immensely powerful organization
a rich and powerful man
Only the intervention of powerful friends obtained her release.
powerful weapons
a powerful engine
a powerful voice
a powerful image/drug/speech
a powerful body
a powerful athlete
a powerfully emotive song
He is powerfully built (= he has a large strong body).
She argued powerfully for reform.
China has been described as an 'emerging economic powerhouse'.
powerless minorities
When the enemy attacked, we were completely powerless against them.
I saw what was happening, but I was powerless to help.
a feeling/sense of powerlessness
See pp. 100–117.
pp Chris Baker (= from Chris Baker, but signed by sb else because Chris Baker is away)
a PR department/agency/campaign
The article is very good PR for the theatre.
to have gained practical experience of the work
practical advice/help/support
practical problems
There are some obvious practical applications of the research.
In practical terms, it means spending less.
From a practical point of view, it isn't a good place to live.
It wouldn't be practical for us to go all that way just for the weekend.
a practical little car, ideal for the city
Let's be practical and work out the cost first.
Bob's very practical. He does all the odd jobs around the house.
She married a practical stranger.
The theatre was practically empty.
I meet famous people practically every day.
My essay is practically finished now.
There's practically no difference between the two options.
Practically speaking, we can't afford it.
It sounds like a good idea, but I don't think it will work practically.
at the earliest practicable opportunity
as soon as (is) practicable
The only practicable alternative is to postpone the meeting.
Employers should provide a safe working environment, as far as is reasonably practicable.
We were doubtful about the practicability of the plan.
Please reply as soon as is practicably possible.
I have doubts about the practicality of their proposal.
I was impressed by her practicality.
It sounds like a good idea; let's look at the practicalities and work out the costs.
the theory and practice of teaching
She's determined to put her new ideas into practice.
common/current/standard practice
guidelines for good practice
a review of pay and working practices
religious practices
the German practice of giving workers a say in how their company is run
It is his practice to read several books a week.
conversation practice
It takes a lot of practice to play the violin well.
There's a basketball practice every Friday evening.
She does an hour's piano practice every day.
the practice of medicine
Students should have prior experience of veterinary practice.
My solicitor is no longer in practice.
a successful medical/dental/law practice
to practice the piano every day
The team is practicing for their big game on Friday.
They practiced the dance until it was perfect.
She's practicing medicine in Philadelphia.
dental practitioners
a qualified practitioner
one of the greatest practitioners of science fiction
You need to practise every day.
She's practising for her piano exam.
I've been practising my serve for weeks.
He usually wants to practise his English on me.
Practise reversing the car into the garage.
to practise self-restraint/safe sex
Do you still practise your religion?
There are over 50 000 solicitors practising in England and Wales.
She practised as a barrister for many years.
He was banned from practising medicine.
She's only 18 but she's already a practised composer.
It took a practised eye to spot the difference.
He has good ideas but he isn't practised in the art of marketing.
a practising Christian/teacher
a pragmatic approach to management problems
His teachers are full of praise for the progress he's making.
She wrote poems in praise of freedom.
His latest movie has won high praise from the critics.
We have nothing but praise for the way they handled the investigation.
The team coach singled out two players for special praise.
She left with their praises ringing in her ears.
They always sing his praises (= praise him very highly).
hymns/songs of praise
Praise be (to God)!(= expressing belief or joy)
She praised his cooking.
He praised his team for their performance.
Critics praised the work as highly original.
Praise the Lord.
Allah be praised.
a praiseworthy achievement
The lead singer was prancing around with the microphone.
a childish prank
Student pranksters have done considerable damage to the school buildings.
She prattled on about her children all evening.
They knelt down and prayed.
I'll pray for you.
to pray for peace
She prayed to God for an end to her sufferings.
We prayed (that) she would recover from her illness.
He prayed to be forgiven.
'Please God don't let it happen,' she prayed.
We're praying for good weather on Saturday.
I prayed that nobody would notice my mistake.
What, pray, is the meaning of this?
Pray continue.
to say your prayers
prayers for the sick
He arrived at that very moment, as if in answer to her prayer.
Their prayers were answered and the child was found safe and well.
It was a prayer she had learnt as a child.
They knelt in prayer.
We believe in the power of prayer.
My prayer is that one day he will walk again.
preheat
precaution
pre-war
preseason training (= before a sports season starts)
You are advised to pre-book.
Accommodation is cheaper if you pre-book it.
Dickens was pre-eminent among English writers of his day.
to achieve pre-eminence in public life
A good training course will pre-empt many problems.
She was just about to apologize when he pre-empted her.
The scheduled programme will be pre-empted by a special news bulletin.
Existing shareholders will have pre-emption rights.
a pre-emptive attack/strike on the military base
a pre-existing medical condition
pre-packed sandwiches
pre-pay phones
the pre-production script
players who fail at the pre-qualifying stage
Pre-Raphaelite paintings
pre-tax profits/losses/income
the pre-teen years
the pre-war years
pre-war Britain
She preached to the congregation about forgiveness.
The minister preached a sermon on the parable of the lost sheep.
to preach the word of God
He preached the virtues of capitalism to us.
She preached about the benefits of a healthy lifestyle.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to preach.
You're preaching at me again!
a preacher famous for her inspiring sermons
a lay preacher (= who is not a priest, etc. but who has been trained to give religious talks)
The aims of the treaty are stated in its preamble.
She gave him the bad news without preamble.
precancerous cells
He earned a precarious living as an artist.
The museum is in a financially precarious position.
That ladder looks very precarious.
The path down to the beach is very precarious in wet weather.
The economy is precariously close to recession.
He balanced the glass precariously on the arm of his chair.
precast concrete slabs
safety precautions
precautions against fire
You must take all reasonable precautions to protect yourself and your family.
I'll keep the letter as a precaution.
We didn't take any precautions and I got pregnant.
He was kept in the hospital overnight as a precautionary measure.
the years preceding the war
His resignation was preceded by weeks of speculation.
She preceded me in the job.
See the preceding chapter.
She preceded him out of the room.
She preceded her speech with a vote of thanks to the committee.
She had to learn that her wishes did not take precedence over other people's needs.
The speakers came on to the platform in order of precedence (= the most important one first).
The ruling set a precedent for future libel cases.
historical precedents
There is no precedent for a disaster of this scale.
Such protests are without precedent in recent history.
to break with precedent (= to do sth in a different way)
The new president reversed many of the policies of his predecessor.
a pedestrian/shopping precinct
Detective Hennessy of the 44th precinct
The murder occurred just a block from the precinct.
the cathedral/college precincts
within the precincts of the castle
a precious vase
The crown was set with precious jewels—diamonds, rubies and emeralds.
Clean water is a precious commodity in that part of the world.
You're wasting precious time!
precious memories/possessions
I didn't touch your precious car!
the preciousness of an old friendship
His writings reveal an unattractive preciousness of style.
There's precious little to do in this town.
(figurative) The country was now on the edge of a precipice (= very close to disaster).
His resignation precipitated a leadership crisis.
The assassination of the president precipitated the country into war.
to act precipitately
an increase in annual precipitation
precipitous cliffs
a precipitous drop at the side of the road
a precipitous decline in exports
a precipitous action
The land dropped precipitously down to the rocky shore.
The dollar plunged precipitously.
We don't want to act precipitously.
to write/give/make a precis of a report
to precis a scientific report
precise details/instructions/measurements
Can you give a more precise definition of the word?
I can be reasonably precise about the time of the incident.
We were just talking about her when, at that precise moment, she walked in.
Doctors found it hard to establish the precise nature of her illness.
a skilled and precise worker
small, precise movements
(disapproving) She's rather prim and precise.
The shelf is about a metre long—well, 98cm, to be precise.
They look precisely the same to me.
That's precisely what I meant.
It's not clear precisely how the accident happened.
The meeting starts at 2 o'clock precisely.
to describe sth precisely
She pronounced the word very slowly and precisely.
It's precisely because I care about you that I don't like you staying out late.
'It's not that easy, is it?' 'No, precisely.'
done with mathematical precision
Historians can't estimate the date with any (degree of) precision.
He chose his words with precision.
precision instruments/tools
Lack of time precludes any further discussion.
My lack of interest in the subject precluded me from gaining much enjoyment out of it.
His religious beliefs precluded him/his serving in the army.
a precocious child who started her acting career at the age of 5
sexually precocious
From an early age she displayed a precocious talent for music.
a precociously talented child
his unusual precocity
Before I started the job, I had no preconceived notions of what it would be like.
a book that will challenge your preconceptions about rural life
A ceasefire is an essential precondition for negotiation.
Few of the town's fine buildings predate the earthquake of 1755.
Some animals have no natural predators.
to protect domestic industry from foreign predators
a predatory insurance salesman
a predatory look
His wife predeceased him.
It seems she was predestined to be famous.
The sex of the embryo is predetermined at fertilization.
An alarm sounds when the temperature reaches a predetermined level.
the club's financial predicament
I'm in a terrible predicament.
Democracy is predicated upon the rule of law.
The article predicates that the market collapse was caused by weakness of the dollar.
a reliable method of predicting earthquakes
Nobody could predict the outcome.
It is impossible to predict what will happen.
She predicted (that) the election result would be close.
It was predicted that inflation would continue to fall.
The trial is predicted to last for months.
a predictable result
The ending of the book was entirely predictable.
In March and April, the weather is much less predictable.
He's very nice, but I find him rather dull and predictable.
Prices were predictably high.
Predictably, the new regulations proved unpopular.
Not many people agree with the government's prediction that the economy will improve.
The results of the experiment confirmed our predictions.
Skilled readers make use of context and prediction.
It's difficult to make accurate predictions about the effects on the environment.
the predictive power of science
predictive text input
predictive messaging
Cholesterol level is not a strong predictor of heart disease in women.
He believes that some people are predisposed to criminal behaviour.
Her good mood predisposed her to enjoy the play.
Stress can predispose people to heart attacks.
a genetic predisposition to liver disease
a victim of racial prejudice
Their decision was based on ignorance and prejudice.
There is little prejudice against workers from other EU states.
I must admit to a prejudice in favour of British universities.
They agreed to pay compensation without prejudice (= without admitting guilt ).
The prosecution lawyers have been trying to prejudice the jury against her.
Any delay will prejudice the child's welfare.
a predominance of female teachers in elementary schools
a predominant feature
Yellow is the predominant colour this spring in the fashion world.
a predominant culture
She works in a predominantly male environment.
a colour scheme in which red predominates
Women predominated in the audience.
Private interest was not allowed to predominate over the public good.
Will you stop preening yourself in front of the mirror?
prefabs built after the war
He prefaced the diaries with a short account of how they were discovered.
I must preface my remarks with an apology.
a prefatory note
'Coffee or tea?' 'I'd prefer tea, thanks.'
I much prefer jazz to rock music.
I would prefer it if you didn't tell anyone.
A local firm is to be preferred.
I prefer my coffee black.
The donor prefers to remain anonymous.
I prefer not to think about it.
Would you prefer me to stay?
I prefer playing in defence.
(formal) I would prefer that you did not mention my name.
I like the red one better than/more than the green one.
I prefer beef to lamb.
I'd prefer to wait here.
I'd rather go to the concert than the play.
I think I'd rather stay in than go out tonight.
I like swimming better than jogging.
I think that colour's much more attractive.
It doesn't really matter to me whether we eat here or go out.(especially NAmE)
I don't really mind whether we talk now or later.(BrE)
I'm happy either way. (NAmE)
I don't really care either way.
If it were up to me, I'd choose the green one.
If you ask me, the old one looks better than the new one.
I'm not an expert but Design B seems more eye-catching.
Anything was preferable to the tense atmosphere at home.
He finds country life infinitely preferable to living in the city.
It would be preferable to employ two people, not one.
We're looking for a new house, preferably one near the school.
It's a matter of personal preference.
Many people expressed a strong preference for the original plan.
I can't say that I have any particular preference.
Let's make a list of possible speakers, in order of preference.
a study of consumer preferences
Don't expect to get preferential treatment.
Car insurance policies have the prefix MC (for motor car).
American members have the letters US prefixed to their code numbers.
Their code numbers are prefixed with US.
Many women experience sickness during pregnancy.
a pregnancy test
unplanned/unwanted pregnancies
the increase in teenage pregnancies
My wife is pregnant.
I was pregnant with our third child at the time.
a heavily pregnant woman (= one whose baby is nearly ready to be born)
to get/become pregnant
He got his girlfriend pregnant and they're getting married.
She's six months pregnant.
Her silences were pregnant with criticism.
the monkey's prehensile tail
in prehistoric times
prehistoric man/remains/animals/burial sites
the prehistory of capitalism
a parish priest
the ordination of women priests
They took care not to prejudge the issue.
Few people will admit to being racially prejudiced.
They are prejudiced against older applicants.
(humorous) I think it's an excellent article, but then I'm prejudiced—I wrote it.
developments prejudicial to the company's future
After a few preliminary remarks he announced the winners.
preliminary results/findings/enquiries
the preliminary rounds of the contest
pilot studies preliminary to a full-scale study
Research will be needed as a preliminary to taking a decision.
I'll skip the usual preliminaries and come straight to the point.
England was lucky to get through the preliminaries (= the preliminary stages in a sports competition).
The PC comes with office software preloaded.
premarital sex
his premature death at the age of 37
The baby was four weeks premature.
a premature birth after only thirty weeks
a premature conclusion/decision/judgement
It is premature to talk about success at this stage.
The child was born prematurely.
Her hair became prematurely white.
a premeditated attack
The killing had not been premeditated.
Many women suffer from premenstrual tension/syndrome, causing headaches and depression.
a monthly premium of £6.25
You have to pay a high premium for express delivery.
A premium of 10% is paid out after 20 years.
premium prices/products
one of the country's premier chefs
(BrE, sport 体育) the Premier League/Division
the world premiere of his new play
The movie will have its premiere in July.
The play was premiered at the Birmingham Rep in 2014.
His new movie premieres in New York this week.
during Gordon Brown's premiership
the basic premise of her argument
a false premise
His reasoning is based on the premise that all people are equally capable of good and evil.
Traditional economic analysis is premised on the assumption that more is better.
business/commercial/industrial premises
No alcohol may be consumed on the premises.
Police were called to escort her off the premises.
In 'a loud noise', the adjective 'loud' is a premodifier.
a premonition of disaster
He had a premonition that he would never see her again.
a premonitory dream
She found his preoccupation with money irritating.
His current preoccupation is the appointment of the new manager.
She spoke slowly, in a state of preoccupation.
He was too preoccupied with his own thoughts to notice anything wrong.
Is everything we do preordained?
They seemed preordained to meet.
Prep the vegetables in advance.
They're prepping for college.
a prepaid mobile phone
A prepaid envelope is enclosed (= so you do not have to pay the cost of sending a letter).
Preparation for the party started early.
food preparation
Careful preparation for the exam is essential.
The third book in the series is currently in preparation.
The team has been training hard in preparation for the big game.
The country is making preparations for war.
Was going to college a good preparation for your career?
We made preparations to move to new offices.
wedding preparations
a pharmaceutical preparation
preparations for the hair and skin
preparatory meetings
Security checks had been carried out preparatory to (= to prepare for) the President's visit.
I was not prepared for all the problems it caused.
We'll be better prepared next time.
When they set out they were well prepared.
We are not prepared to accept these conditions.
How much are you prepared to pay?
The police officer read out a prepared statement.
I was surprised by his preparedness to break the law.
The troops are in a state of preparedness.
a prepayment plan
a prepositional phrase (= a preposition and the noun following it, for example at night or after breakfast )
He was not a prepossessing sight.
These claims are absolutely preposterous!
The band were famous for their preposterous clothes and haircuts.
a preposterously expensive bottle of wine
a preppy image
preppy clothes
a preprandial drink
Fans waited for years for the first Star Wars prequel.
A degree is an essential prerequisite for employment at this level.
prerequisite knowledge
the first presages of winter
Valium is usually prescribed to treat anxiety.
He may be able to prescribe you something for that cough.
The prescribed form must be completed and returned to this office.
Police regulations prescribe that an officer's number must be clearly visible.
The syllabus prescribes precisely which books should be studied.
The doctor gave me a prescription for antibiotics.
(BrE) Antibiotics are only available on prescription.
(NAmE) Antibiotics are only available by prescription.
They are not available without a prescription.
prescription drugs/medication(s)
The pharmacist will make up your prescription.
a prescription charge (= in Britain, the money you must pay for a medicine your doctor has ordered for you)
The prescription of drugs is a doctor's responsibility.
a prescription for happiness
prescriptive methods of teaching
prescriptive powers
You can preselect programmes you want to watch, and program your VCR to record them.
Putting a trial version on your website is a great way of preselling your product.
These farmers presell their crops.
He hardly seemed to notice my presence.
Her presence during the crisis had a calming effect.
(formal) Your presence is requested at the meeting.
The test can identify the presence of abnormalities in the unborn child.
The government is maintaining a heavy police presence in the area.
a military presence
She felt a presence behind her.
a man of great presence
The boy had the presence of mind to turn off the gas.
in the present situation
the present owner of the house
a list of all club members, past and present
We do not have any more information at the present time.
A few brief comments are sufficient for present purposes.
There were 200 people present at the meeting.
Levels of pollution present in the atmosphere are increasing.
Analysis showed that traces of arsenic were present in the body.
birthday/Christmas/wedding, etc. presents
What can I get him for a birthday present?
You've got to forget the past and start living in the present.
I'm sorry he's out at present (= now).
The local MP will start the race and present the prizes.
On his retirement, colleagues presented him with a set of golf clubs.
The sword was presented by the family to the museum.
The committee will present its final report to Parliament in June.
Eight options were presented for consideration.
Are you presenting a paper at the conference?
The company has decided it must present a more modern image.
It is essential that we present a united front (= show that we all agree).
You need to present yourself better.
He likes to present himself as a radical politician.
The article presents these proposals as misguided.
Your request shouldn't present us with any problems.
Use of these chemicals may present a fire risk.
One major problem did present itself, though.
As soon as the opportunity presented itself, she would get another job.
Thankfully, a solution presented itself to him surprisingly soon.
She used to present a gardening programme on TV.
Compass Theatre Company presents a new production of 'King Lear'.
May I present my fiancé to you?
You will be asked to present yourself for interview.
She was ordered to present herself in court on 20 May.
Please allow me to present my apologies.
A cheque presented by Mr Jackson was returned by the bank.
The builders presented a bill for several hundred pounds.
a study of European drama, from Ibsen to the present day
present-day fashions
present-day America
I must go and make myself presentable before the guests arrive.
You're going to have to do a lot more work on this essay before it's presentable.
The trial was adjourned following the presentation of new evidence to the court.
The presentation of prizes began after the speeches.
The Mayor will make the presentation (= hand over the gift) herself.
Members will be admitted on presentation of a membership card.
Improving the product's presentation (= the way it is wrapped, advertised, etc.) should increase sales.
I admire the clear, logical presentation of her arguments.
The sales manager will give a presentation on the new products.
I've put my presentation on a memory stick.
a course on developing presentational skills
a TV presenter
conference presenters
a presentiment of disaster
The crime is presently being investigated by the police.
These are the courses presently available.
Presently, the door opened again and three men stepped out.
She'll be here presently.
I'll be with you presently.
She is presently living in Milan.
There is presently no cure for the disease.
building/environmental/food preservation
a preservation group/society
The central issue in the strike was the preservation of jobs.
The paintings were in an excellent state of preservation.
The juice contains no artificial preservatives.
(a) wood preservative
He was anxious to preserve his reputation.
Efforts to preserve the peace have failed.
a perfectly preserved 14th century house
(humorous) Is he really 60? He's remarkably well preserved.
This vase has been preserved intact.
olives preserved in brine
Wax polish preserves wood and leather.
The society was set up to preserve endangered species from extinction.
Football is no longer the preserve of men.
in the days when nursing was a female preserve
The police are the preservers of law and order.
You can preset the radiators to come on when you need them to.
to preset TV channels/radio stations (= to set the controls so that particular channels are selected when you press particular buttons)
They kept to the preset route.
the presiding judge
They asked if I would preside at the committee meeting.
(figurative) The party presided over one of the worst economic declines in the country's history (= it was in power when the decline happened).
the current holder of the EU presidency
He was a White House official during the Bush presidency.
Several presidents attended the funeral.
the President of the United States
President Obama is due to visit the country next month.
Do you have any comment, Mr President?
to be made president of the students' union
the bank president
the president of Columbia Pictures
a presidential campaign/candidate/election
a presidential system of government
the local/national/foreign press
the popular/tabloid press (= smaller newspapers with a lot of pictures and stories about famous people)
The story was reported in the press and on television.
the music/sporting press (= newspapers and magazines about music/sport)
Unlike the American, the British press operates on a national scale.
the freedom of the Press/press freedom (= the freedom to report any events and express opinions)
The event is bound to attract wide press coverage (= it will be written about in many newspapers).
The Press was/were not allowed to attend the trial.
The airline has had a bad press recently (= journalists have written unpleasant things about it).
We were able to watch the books rolling off the presses.
These prices are correct at the time of going to press.
a story that is hot off the press (= has just appeared in the newspapers)
Oxford University Press
a trouser press
a garlic press
He gave the bell another press.
Those shirts need a press (= with an iron).
the press of bodies all moving the same way
She pressed her face against the window.
He pressed a handkerchief to his nose.
She pressed her lips together.
His body was pressing against hers.
to press a button/switch/key
He pressed the lid firmly shut.
Press here to open.
She pressed down hard on the gas pedal.
He pressed a coin into her hand and moved on.
The photographers pressed around the royal visitors.
(figurative) A host of unwelcome thoughts were pressing in on him.
If pressed, he will admit that he knew about the affair.
The bank is pressing us for repayment of the loan.
They are pressing us to make a quick decision.
Don't let yourself be pressed into doing something you don't like.
I don't want to press the point, but you do owe me $200.
She is still pressing her claim for compensation.
They were determined to press their case at the highest level.
pressed flowers (= pressed between the pages of a book)
Press the soil flat with the back of a spade.
My suit needs pressing.
to press a CD
The car bodies are pressed out of sheets of metal.
Every type of boat was pressed into service to rescue passengers from the sinking ferry.
The company is pressing ahead with its plans for a new warehouse.
'Shall we stay here for the night?' 'No, let's press on.'
They continued to press for a change in the law.
She kept pressing cake on us.
to hold/give a press conference
I'm really pressed for cash at the moment.
pictures made with pressed flowers
neatly pressed trousers
I'm afraid I have some pressing business to attend to.
a pressing invitation
The initial pressing of the group's album has already sold out.
The nurse applied pressure to his arm to stop the bleeding.
The barriers gave way under the pressure of the crowd.
air/water pressure
Check the tyre pressure (= the amount of air in a tyre) regularly.
A band of high/low pressure is moving across the country.
The pressure for change continued to mount.
There is a great deal of pressure on young people to conform.
The government eventually bowed to popular pressure (= they agreed to do what people were trying to get them to do).
Teenagers may find it difficult to resist peer pressure.
She was unable to attend because of the pressure of work.
You need to be able to handle pressure in this job.
How can anyone enjoy the pressures of city life?
She was unable to attend because of the pressures of work.
stress-related illnesses
nervous tension
I found it a strain looking after four children.
The director is under increasing pressure to resign.
The team performs well under pressure.
Don't let yourself be pressured into making a hasty decision.
the environmental pressure group 'Greenpeace'
She was pressurized into accepting the job.
He felt that he was being pressurized to resign.
personal prestige
There is a lot of prestige attached to owning a car like this.
jobs with low prestige
a prestige job
a prestige car
a prestigious award
a prestigious university
Presumably this is where the accident happened.
You'll be taking the car, presumably?
I couldn't concentrate, presumably because I was so tired.
They are very expensive, I presume?
'Is he still abroad?' ' I presume so.'
I presumed (that) he understood the rules.
Little is known of the youngest son; it is presumed that he died young.
I presumed him to be her husband.
Twelve passengers are missing, presumed dead.
In English law, a person is presumed innocent until proved guilty.
We must presume innocence until we have proof of guilt.
We must presume them to be innocent until we have proof of guilt.
The course seems to presume some previous knowledge of the subject.
I wouldn't presume to tell you how to run your own business.
I felt it would be presuming on our personal relationship to keep asking her for help.
There is a general presumption that the doctor knows best.
Everyone is entitled to the presumption of innocence until they are proved to be guilty.
Teachers sometimes presuppose a fairly high level of knowledge by the students.
His argument presupposes that it does not matter who is in power.
theories based on presupposition and coincidence
Their friendliness was only pretence.
By the end of the evening she had abandoned all pretence of being interested.
He made no pretence of great musical knowledge.
She was unable to keep up the pretence that she loved him.
a woman with some pretence to beauty
I make no pretence to being an expert on the subject.
I'm tired of having to pretend all the time.
Of course I was wrong; it would be hypocritical to pretend otherwise.
He pretended to his family that everything was fine.
We pretended (that) nothing had happened.
He pretended not to notice.
She didn't love him, though she pretended to.
(formal) She pretended an interest she did not feel.
They didn't have any real money so they had to pretend.
Let's pretend (that) we're astronauts.
I can't pretend to any great musical talent.
I don't pretend (that) I know much about the subject, but…
The book doesn't pretend to be a great work of literature.
pretend cakes
intellectual pretensions
The play mocks the pretensions of the new middle class.
He spoke without pretension.
a building with no pretensions to architectural merit
The movie makes no pretension to reproduce life.
That's a pretentious name for a dog!
It was just an ordinary house—nothing pretentious.
He's so pretentious!
caring for low birthweight and preterm babies
a preterm birth/delivery
Babies born preterm are at greater risk of needing hospitalization.
The city was preternaturally quiet.
The incident was used as a pretext for intervention in the area.
He left the party early on the pretext of having work to do.
I'm pretty sure I'll be going.
The game was pretty good.
It's pretty hard to explain.
I'm going to have to find a new apartment pretty soon.
That performance was pretty impressive.
Things are looking pretty good!
a pretty face
a pretty little girl
You look so pretty in that dress!
pretty clothes
a pretty garden
a pretty name
She laughed prettily.
The rooms are simply but prettily furnished.
the prettiness of youth
We were horrified at the conditions prevailing in local prisons.
Those beliefs still prevail among certain social groups.
Justice will prevail over tyranny.
Fortunately, common sense prevailed.
I'm sure he could be prevailed upon to give a talk.
the prevailing economic conditions
the attitude towards science prevailing at the time
The prevailing view seems to be that they will find her guilty.
a prevalent view
These prejudices are particularly prevalent among people living in the North.
Stop prevaricating and come to the point.
The accident could have been prevented.
He is prevented by law from holding a licence.
Nothing would prevent him from speaking out against injustice.
(BrE) Nothing would prevent him/his speaking out against injustice.
preventable diseases/accidents
accident/crime prevention
the prevention of disease
a fire prevention officer
preventive medicine
The police were able to take preventive action and avoid a possible riot.
preverbal communication
a press preview (= for journalists only)
a special preview of our winter fashion collection
Turn to page 12 for a preview of next week's programmes.
The exhibition was previewed in last week's issue.
The professor previewed the course for us.
No previous experience is necessary for this job.
The car has only had one previous owner.
She is his daughter from a previous marriage.
I was unable to attend because of a previous engagement.
The judge will take into consideration any previous convictions.
I couldn't believe it when I heard the news. I'd only seen him the previous day.
The building had previously been used as a hotel.
I had visited them three days previously.
Previous to this, she'd always been well.
The lion will often stalk its prey for hours.
birds of prey (= birds that kill for food)
Elderly people are easy prey for dishonest salesmen.
Bogus social workers have been preying on old people living alone.
Boat for sale, price £2 000
house/retail/oil/share prices
to charge a high/reasonable/low price for sth
The price of cigarettes is set to rise again.
He managed to get a good price for the car.
rising/falling prices
Can you give me a price for the work (= tell me how much you will charge)?
I'm only buying it if it's the right price (= a price that I think is reasonable).
Children over five must pay (the) full price for the ticket.
It's amazing how much computers have come down in price over the past few years.
price rises/increases/cuts
a price list
Criticism is part of the price of leadership.
Loneliness is a high price to pay for independence in your old age.
Giving up his job was a small price to pay for his children's happiness.
Six to one is a good price for that horse.
They haven't yet put a price on the business.
You can't put a price on that sort of loyalty.
What price fame and fortune?
What price England winning the World Cup?
a reasonably priced house
These goods are priced too high.
The tickets are priced at $100 each.
We priced various models before buying this one.
There is a £2 million price tag on the team's star player.
priceless information
You should have seen his face—it was priceless!
competitive pricing
pricing policy
New roads will link the principal cities of the area.
Peter Brown, principal of St John's College
Principal Ray Smith
He has high moral principles.
I refuse to lie about it; it's against my principles.
Stick to your principles and tell him you won't do it.
She refuses to allow her family to help her as a matter of principle.
He doesn't invest in the arms industry on principle.
the principles and practice of writing reports
The principle behind it is very simple.
There are three fundamental principles of teamwork.
Discussing all these details will get us nowhere; we must get back to first principles (= the most basic rules).
the principle that free education should be available for all children
the principle that heat rises
He pricked the balloon and burst it.
Prick holes in the paper with a pin.
She pricked her finger on a needle.
He felt a pricking sensation in his throat.
Tears pricked her eyes.
Don't be such a prick!
I'm going to give your finger a little prick with this needle.
You will feel a tiny prick in your arm.
(figurative) He could feel the hot prick of tears in his eyes.
The rough cloth prickled my skin.
His moustache prickled when he kissed me.
Her eyes prickled with tears.
The hairs on the back of my neck prickled when I heard the door open.
(figurative) He prickled (= became angry) at the suggestion that it had been his fault.
a cactus covered in prickles
a prickle of fear/excitement
a prickly bush
a prickly feeling
Let's move on to the prickly subject of taxation reform.
The sight of her son graduating filled her with pride.
I take (a) pride in my work.
We take great pride in offering the best service in town.
I looked with pride at what I had achieved.
Success in sport is a source of national pride.
The new sports stadium is the pride of the town.
Pride would not allow him to accept the money.
Her pride was hurt.
Losing his job was a real blow to his pride.
It's time to swallow your pride (= hide your feelings of pride) and ask for your job back.
Male pride forced him to suffer in silence.
She had always prided herself on her appearance.
I'm sick of you prying into my personal life!
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to pry.
She tried to keep the children away from the prying eyes of the world's media.
to enter the priesthood (= to become a priest)
You can't tell her that joke—she's much too prim and proper.
a prim suit with a high-necked collar
'You're not supposed to say that,' she said primly.
prima facie evidence
Prima facie, there is a strong case against him.
a belief in the primacy of the family
the primal hunter-gatherer
a primal urge/fear
a course designed primarily for specialists
The problem is not primarily a financial one.
The primary aim of this course is to improve your spoken English.
Our primary concern must be the children.
Good health care is of primary importance.
primary causes
The disease is still in its primary stage.
primary teachers
the Illinois primary
the presidential primaries
the Primate of all England (= the Archbishop of Canterbury)
primitive tribes
primitive beliefs
primitive man
The methods of communication used during the war were primitive by today's standards.
The facilities on the campsite were very primitive.
a primitive instinct
Winning is not the prime objective in this sport.
The care of the environment is of prime importance.
He's the police's prime suspect in this case.
prime (cuts of) beef
The store has a prime position in the mall.
The building is a prime example of 1960s architecture.
The house is isolated and a prime target for burglars.
He's a prime candidate for promotion.
a young woman in her prime
He was barely 30 and in the prime of (his) life.
These flowers are long past their prime.
They had been primed with good advice.
She was ready and primed for action.
He had primed his friends to give the journalists as little information as possible.
The bomb was primed, ready to explode.
prime-time television
The President doesn't need a primer on national security.
primeval forests
primeval urges
primordial impulses
the royal princes
the Prince of Wales
Prince Albert of Monaco
the prince of comedy
Prince Albert, the Prince Consort
I bought a bike for the princely sum of £20!
princely buildings
a princely gift
the royal princesses
Princess Anne
the Princess of Wales
Princess Michael of Kent
Is something the matter, princess?
the principality of Monaco
The book is aimed principally at beginners.
No new power stations have been built, principally because of the cost.
a principled woman
to take a principled stand against abortion
a principled approach to language teaching
Do you want your address printed at the top of the letter?
I'm printing a copy of the document for you.
Each card is printed with a different message.
(computing 计算机) Click on the icon when you want to print.
They printed 30 000 copies of the book.
The photo was printed in all the national newspapers.
I'm having the pictures developed and printed.
In some countries children learn to print when they first go to school.
Print your name and address clearly in the space provided.
The tracks of the large animal were clearly printed in the sand.
(figurative) The memory of that day was indelibly printed on his brain.
They had printed their own design on the T-shirt.
in large/small/bold print
The print quality of the new laser printer is superb.
the print media
print unions
His prints were found on the gun.
a framed set of prints
How many sets of prints would you like?
a colour print
a cotton print dress
a floral print
The titles are available through print on demand.
This is a print-on-demand title.
His comment when he heard the news was not printable (= was very rude).
a colour/laser printer
the invention of printing
the printing trade
colour printing
The book is in its sixth printing.
a printout of text downloaded from the Internet
Although not essential, some prior knowledge of statistics is desirable.
This information must not be disclosed without prior written consent.
Visits are by prior arrangement.
Please give us prior notice if you need an evening meal.
She will be unable to attend because of a prior engagement.
They have a prior claim to the property.
during the week prior to the meeting
a high/low priority
Education is a top priority.
Our first priority is to improve standards.
Financial security was high on his list of priorities.
You need to get your priorities right (= decide what is important to you).
(NAmE) You need to get your priorities straight.
Club members will be given priority.
The search for a new vaccine will take priority over all other medical research.
Priority cases, such as homeless families, get dealt with first.
Buses have priority at this junction.
You should make a list of all the jobs you have to do and prioritize them.
The organization was formed to prioritize the needs of older people.
He prised her fingers from the bag and took it from her.
She used a knife to prise open the lid.
He was sent to prison for five years.
She is in prison, awaiting trial.
to be released from prison
a maximum-security prison
the prison population (= the total number of prisoners in a country)
the problem of overcrowding in prisons
Ten prison officers and three inmates needed hospital treatment following the riot.
the prison service/system
The government insists that 'prison works' and plans to introduce a tougher sentencing policy for people convicted of violent crime.
His hospital room had become a prison.
The number of prisoners serving life sentences has fallen.
They are demanding the release of all political prisoners.
He was taken prisoner by rebel soldiers.
They are holding her prisoner and demanding a large ransom.
(figurative) She is afraid to go out and has become a virtual prisoner in her own home.
The car is in pristine condition.
pristine, pollution-free beaches
She was longing for some peace and privacy.
I value my privacy.
He read the letter later in the privacy of his own room.
freedom of speech and the right to privacy
The sign said, 'Private property. Keep out.'
Those are my father's private papers.
The hotel has 110 bedrooms, all with private bathrooms.
a private conversation
They were sharing a private joke.
Senior defence officials held private talks.
her private thoughts and feelings
private banks
a programme to return many of the state companies to private ownership
private doctors
(BrE) If I can afford it, I think I'll go private (= pay for medical care rather than use the government service).
a politician's private life
Let's go somewhere a bit more private.
He's a very private person.
She gives private English lessons at weekends.
He has a private income.
Can we speak privately?
In public he supported the official policy, but privately he was sure it would fail.
a privately owned company
Their children were educated privately.
She smiled, but privately she was furious.
Private (John) Smith
Most solicitors in England and Wales are in private practice.
the privations of poverty
They endured years of suffering and privation.
There were fears that privatization would lead to job losses.
Education should be a universal right and not a privilege.
You can enjoy all the benefits and privileges of club membership.
As a member of the nobility, his life had been one of wealth and privilege.
I hope to have the privilege of working with them again.
It was a great privilege to hear her sing.
parliamentary privilege (= the special right of members of parliament to say particular things without risking legal action)
education policies that privilege the children of wealthy parents
Those in authority were in a privileged position.
She comes from a privileged background.
In those days, only a privileged few had the vote.
We are privileged to welcome you as our speaker this evening.
She was not privy to any information contained in the letters.
She was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
He won first prize in the woodwind section.
There are no prizes for guessing (= it is very easy to guess) who she was with.
I won £500 in prize money.
Win a car in our grand prize draw!
World peace is the greatest prize of all.
prize cattle
a prize student
He's a prize specimen of the human race!
(informal) She's a prize idiot (= very silly).
an era when honesty was prized above all other virtues
Oil of cedarwood is highly prized for its use in perfumery.
I lost some of my most prized possessions in the fire.
a prizewinning story
a golf pro
He handled the situation like an old pro (= sb who has a lot of experience).
a pro wrestler
pro football
a young boxer who's just turned pro
He has always been pro the environment.
a pro forma letter
pro forma instructions
a pro forma invoice (= a document that gives details of the goods being sent to a customer)
a pro forma debate
I enclose a pro forma for you to complete, sign and return.
If costs go up, there will be a pro rata increase in prices.
Prices will increase pro rata.
A new manager will be appointed pro tem.
A pro tem committee was formed from existing members.
pro-democracy
a pro-am golf tournament
to play in a pro-am
the pro-life movement
a pro-life campaigner
The probability is that prices will rise rapidly.
There seemed to be a high probability of success.
A fall in interest rates is a strong probability in the present economic climate.
It now seems a probability rather than just a possibility.
There is a 60% probability that the population will be infected with the disease.
the probable cause/explanation/outcome
highly/quite/most probable
It is probable that the disease has a genetic element.
You're probably right.
It'll probably be OK.
It was the best known and probably the most popular of her songs.
'Is he going to be there?' 'Probably.'
'Do we need the car?' 'Probably not.'
As you probably know, I'm going to be changing jobs soon.
The two cases are most probably connected.
The prisoner was put on probation.
He was given two years' probation.
a period of probation
a probationary period
young probationary teachers
He didn't like the media probing into his past.
a TV programme that probed government scandals in the 1990s
'Then what happened?' he probed.
The doctor probed the wound for signs of infection.
Searchlights probed the night sky.
a police probe into the financial affairs of the company
big/major/serious problems
health/family, etc. problems
financial/practical/technical problems
to address/tackle/solve a problem
(especially NAmE) to fix a problem
the problem of drug abuse
If he chooses Mary it's bound to cause problems.
Let me know if you have any problems.
Most students face the problem of funding themselves while they are studying.
The problem first arose in 2008.
Unemployment is a very real problem for graduates now.
It's a nice table! The only problem is (that) it's too big for our room.
Stop worrying about their marriage—it isn't your problem.
There's no history of heart problems (= disease connected with the heart) in our family.
the magazine's problem page (= containing letters about readers' problems and advice about how to solve them)
mathematical problems
to find the answer to the problem
What's your problem?—I only asked if you could help me for ten minutes.
She was a problem child, always in trouble with the police.
They asked a lot of probing questions.
She looked away from his dark probing eyes.
the journalist's unwanted probings
probiotic products/yogurt/cheese
financial probity
a consultation process
to begin the difficult process of reforming the education system
I'm afraid getting things changed will be a slow process.
mental processes
Coming off the drug was a long and painful (= difficult) process for him.
Find which food you are allergic to by a process of elimination.
We're in the process of selling our house.
I was moving some furniture and I twisted my ankle in the process (= while I was doing it).
the ageing process
It's a normal part of the learning process.
manufacturing processes
Most of the food we buy is processed in some way.
processed cheese
It will take a week for your application to be processed.
the food processing industry
a sewage processing plant
maintenance procedures
emergency/safety/disciplinary procedures
to follow normal/standard/accepted procedure
Making a complaint is quite a simple procedure.
court/legal/parliamentary procedure
to perform a routine surgical procedure
procedural rules
We're not sure whether we still want to proceed with the sale.
Work is proceeding slowly.
He outlined his plans and then proceeded to explain them in more detail.
(humorous) Having said she wasn't hungry, she then proceeded to order a three-course meal.
The marchers proceeded slowly along the street.
Passengers for Rome should proceed to Gate 32 for boarding.
bankruptcy/divorce/extradition, etc. proceedings
to bring legal proceedings against sb
The Mayor will open the proceedings at the City Hall tomorrow.
We watched the proceedings from the balcony.
She sold her car and bought a piano with the proceeds.
The proceeds of the concert will go to charity.
a funeral procession
a torchlight procession
The procession made its way down the hill.
Groups of unemployed people from all over the country marched in procession to the capital.
A procession of waiters appeared bearing trays of food.
The president proclaimed a state of emergency.
The charter proclaimed that all states would have their own government.
He proclaimed himself emperor.
Steve checked the battery and proclaimed it to be dead.
The senator proclaimed how shocked he was at the news.
'We will succeed,' she proclaimed.
This building, more than any other, proclaims the character of the town.
His accent proclaimed him a Scot.
His accent proclaimed him to be a Scot.
his sexual/criminal proclivities
the government's proclivity for spending money
They believe that sex is primarily for procreation.
She managed to procure a ticket for the concert.
They procured a copy of the report for us.
They procured us a copy of the report.
He was accused of procuring under-age girls.
She prodded him in the ribs to wake him up.
He prodded at his breakfast with a fork.
She finally prodded him into action.
She gave him a sharp prod with her umbrella.
If they haven't replied by next week, you'll have to call them and give them a prod.
wheat/oil/car, etc. production
land available for food production
The new model will be in production by the end of the year.
Production of the new aircraft will start next year.
The car went out of production in 2007.
production costs
a production process
a decline/an increase in production
It is important not to let production levels fall.
drugs to stimulate the body's production of hormones
a new production of 'King Lear'
He wants a career in film production.
He needed no prodding.
a child/an infant prodigy
a musical prodigy
a prodigious achievement/memory/talent
DVDs can store prodigious amounts of information.
a prodigiously talented musician
The region produces over 50% of the country's wheat.
Our cat produced kittens last week.
Her duty was to produce an heir to the throne.
She produced a delicious meal out of a few leftovers.
A phone call to the manager produced the result she wanted.
The drug produces a feeling of excitement.
He produced a letter from his pocket.
At the meeting the finance director produced the figures for the previous year.
He is the greatest athlete this country has ever produced.
She produced a TV series about adopted children.
farm produce
The shop sells only fresh local produce.
It says on the label 'Produce of France'.
French wine producers
Libya is a major oil producer.
Hollywood screenwriters, actors and producers
an independent television producer
dairy/meat/pharmaceutical, etc. products
investment in product development
to launch a new product on to the market
(business 商业) We need new product to sell (= a new range of products).
the products of the reaction
The child is the product of a broken home.
This product can be used on wet or dry hair.
The product of 21 and 16 is 336.
Cars are checked as they come off the production line.
highly productive farming land
productive workers
a productive meeting
My time spent in the library was very productive.
a play productive of the strongest emotions
to use land more productively
It's important to spend your time productively.
high/improved/increased productivity
Wage rates depend on levels of productivity.
a college prof
Prof. Mike Harrison
profane language
songs of sacred and profane love
He uttered a stream of profanities.
Professor (Ann) Williams
a chemistry professor
to be appointed Professor of French at Cambridge
He was made (a) professor at the age of 40.
She still professes her innocence.
I don't profess to be an expert in this subject.
He professed his admiration for their work.
She professed herself satisfied with the progress so far.
to profess Christianity/Islam/Judaism
a professed Christian/anarchist
These, at least, were their professed reasons for pulling out of the deal.
the medical/legal/teaching, etc. profession
to enter/go into/join a profession
(BrE) the caring professions (= that involve looking after people)
He was an electrician by profession.
She was at the very top of her profession.
The legal profession has/have always resisted change.
employment in industry and the professions
a profession of faith
professional qualifications/skills
professional standards/practice
an opportunity for professional development
If it's a legal matter you need to seek professional advice.
Most of the people on the course were professional women.
He dealt with the problem in a highly professional way.
professional conduct/misconduct
a professional golfer
After he won the amateur championship he turned professional.
the world of professional football
the terms that doctors and other health professionals use
a top golf professional
This was clearly a job for a real professional.
the increasing professionalization of sports
We were impressed by the professionalism of the staff.
the power and professionalism of her performance
Increased professionalism has changed the game radically.
You need a complete change, both professionally and personally.
The product has been marketed very professionally.
The burglar alarm should be professionally installed.
After the injury, he never played professionally again.
professorial duties
His tone was almost professorial.
a visiting professorship
She was appointed to a professorship in Economics at Princeton.
'Try this,' she said, proffering a plate.
What advice would you proffer to someone starting up in business?
What advice would you proffer her?
A solution proffered itself.
I'm a reasonably proficient driver.
She's proficient in several languages.
He's proficient at his job.
to develop proficiency
a certificate of language proficiency
a high level of oral proficiency in English
his strong profile
a picture of the president in profile
a job/employee profile
We first build up a detailed profile of our customers and their requirements.
You can update your Facebook profile (= your description of yourself on a social networking website).
The deal will certainly raise the company's international profile.
the profile of the tower against the sky
His career is profiled in this month's journal.
customer profiling
offender profiling
a prolific author
a prolific goalscorer
one of the most prolific periods in her career
prolific rivers
a pop star with a prolific following of teenage fans
to write prolifically
animals that breed prolifically
a rise/an increase/a drop/a fall in profits
The company made a healthy profit on the deal.
Profit from exports rose 7.3%
Net profit (= after you have paid costs and tax) was up 16.1%.
The sale generated record profits.
We should be able to sell the house at a profit.
The agency is voluntary and not run for profit.
Future lawyers could study this text with profit.
Farmers are profiting from the new legislation.
We tried to profit by our mistakes (= learn from them).
Many local people believe the development will profit them.
It is usually more profitable to sell direct to the public.
She spent a profitable afternoon in the library.
to increase profitability
to run a business profitably
He spent the weekend profitably.
profligate spending
profound changes in the earth's climate
My father's death had a profound effect on us all.
profound insights
a profound book
profound questions about life and death
profound disability
We are profoundly affected by what happens to us in childhood.
profoundly deaf
He lacked profundity and analytical precision.
the profundity of her misery
His profundities were lost on the young audience.
profuse apologies/thanks
profuse bleeding
to bleed profusely
to apologize profusely
a profusion of colours
Roses grew in profusion against the old wall.
He was surrounded by his numerous progeny.
He was the progenitor of a family of distinguished actors.
the progenitors of modern art
The prognosis is for more people to work part-time in the future.
gloomy prognostications
Load the program into the computer.
an intense training program
the university's graduate programs
a TV program
In this class, students will learn how to program.
The computer is programmed to warn users before information is deleted.
programmatic reforms
to launch a research programme
a training programme for new staff
a programme of economic reform
a news programme
Did you see that programme on India last night?
a theatre programme
an exciting musical programme
a week-long programme of lectures
What's the programme for (= what are we going to do) tomorrow?
a school programme
Select a cool programme for woollen clothes.
The final section of road is programmed for completion next month.
Human beings are genetically programmed to learn certain kinds of language.
She programmed the central heating to come on at eight.
a high-level programming language
politically balanced programming
to make progress
slow/steady/rapid/good progress
We have made great progress in controlling inflation.
economic/scientific/technical progress
They asked for a progress report on the project.
She watched his slow progress down the steep slope.
There wasn't much traffic so we made good progress.
The course allows students to progress at their own speed.
Work on the new road is progressing slowly.
The line of traffic progressed slowly through the town.
(figurative) Cases can take months to progress through the courts.
The weather became colder as the day progressed.
She started off playing the recorder and then progressed to the clarinet.
opportunities for career progression
the rapid progression of the disease
a natural progression from childhood to adolescence
progressive schools
a progressive reduction in the size of the workforce
a progressive muscular disease
political progressivism
political battles between progressives and conservatives
The situation was becoming progressively more difficult.
The pain got progressively worse.
the prohibition of smoking in public areas
a prohibition against selling alcohol to people under the age of 18
a law prohibiting the sale of alcohol
Soviet citizens were prohibited from travelling abroad.
The policy prohibits smoking on school grounds.
The high cost of equipment prohibits many people from taking up this sport.
prohibitive costs
The price of property in the city is prohibitive.
prohibitive legislation
Miami began the day a prohibitive Super Bowl favorite.
Car insurance can be prohibitively expensive for young drivers.
a research project
a building project
to set up a project to computerize the library system
a history project
The final term will be devoted to project work.
The party attempted to assemble its aims into a focussed political project.
Going into the projects alone is dangerous.
The next edition of the book is projected for publication in March.
The projected housing development will go ahead next year.
A growth rate of 4% is projected for next year.
The unemployment rate has been projected to fall.
It is projected that the unemployment rate will fall.
Images are projected onto the retina of the eye.
a building with balconies projecting out over the street
They sought advice on how to project a more positive image of their company.
She projects an air of calm self-confidence.
He projected himself as a man worth listening to.
Actors must learn to project their voices.
(figurative) the powerful men who would project him into the White House
projectile motion
The virus causes projectile (= sudden and violent) vomiting.
to make forward/backward projections of population figures
Sales have exceeded our projections.
the projection of three-dimensional images on a computer screen
laser projections
map projections
tiny projections on the cell
voice projection
The idea of God is a projection of humans' need to have something greater than themselves.
Books and articles on the subject have proliferated over the last year.
attempts to prevent cancer cell proliferation
a proliferation of personal computers
The operation could prolong his life by two or three years.
Don't prolong the agony (= of not knowing sth) —just tell us who won!
the artificial prolongation of human life
a prolonged illness
a prolonged period of dry weather
the senior prom
to walk along the prom
the last night of the proms
a young actor who has recently risen to prominence
The newspapers have given undue prominence to the story.
She has achieved a prominence she hardly deserves.
a prominent politician
He played a prominent part in the campaign.
She was prominent in the fashion industry.
The church tower was a prominent feature in the landscape.
The story was given a prominent position on the front page.
a prominent nose
prominent cheekbones
The photographs were prominently displayed on her desk.
Problems of family relationships feature prominently in her novels.
promiscuous behaviour
a promiscuous lifestyle
to be sexually promiscuous
promiscuous reading
a stylistically promiscuous piece of music
sexual promiscuity
The college principal promised to look into the matter.
'Promise not to tell anyone!' 'I promise.'
They arrived at 7.30 as they had promised.
The government has promised a full investigation into the disaster.
I'll see what I can do but I can't promise anything.
The brochure promised (that) the local food would be superb.
You promised me (that) you'd be home early tonight.
He promised the money to his grandchildren.
He promised his grandchildren the money.
I've promised myself some fun when the exams are over.
'I'll be back soon,' she promised.
It promises to be an exciting few days.
There were dark clouds overhead promising rain.
to make/keep/break a promise
She kept her promise to visit her aunt regularly.
The government failed to keep its promise of lower taxes.
Do I have your promise that you won't tell anyone about this?
You haven't gone back on your promise, have you?
Her work shows great promise.
He failed to fulfil his early promise.
Their future was full of promise.
The day dawned bright and clear, with the promise of warm, sunny weather.
He was voted the most promising new actor for his part in the movie.
The weather doesn't look very promising.
The day began promisingly with bright sunshine.
a house in the proximity of (= near) the motorway
The proximity of the college to London makes it very popular.
The area has a number of schools in close proximity to each other.
the death of two members of her family in close proximity
a promo video
to make pop promos
policies to promote economic growth
a campaign to promote awareness of environmental issues
The band has gone on tour to promote their new album.
The area is being promoted as a tourist destination.
She worked hard and was soon promoted.
He has been promoted to sergeant.
They were promoted to the First Division last season.
She became a leading promoter of European integration.
Her promotion to Sales Manager took everyone by surprise.
The new job is a promotion for him.
a job with excellent promotion prospects
the team's promotion to the First Division
Her job is mainly concerned with sales and promotion.
We are doing a special promotion of Chilean wines.
a society for the promotion of religious tolerance
promotional material
Prompt action was required as the fire spread.
Prompt payment of the invoice would be appreciated.
Please be prompt when attending these meetings.
The discovery of the bomb prompted an increase in security.
His speech prompted an angry outburst from a man in the crowd.
The thought of her daughter's wedding day prompted her to lose some weight.
She was too nervous to speak and had to be prompted.
(computing 计算机) The program will prompt you to enter data where required.
'And then what happened?' he prompted.
The meeting will begin at ten o'clock prompt.
He wrote the letter without further prompting.
Never again would she listen to the promptings of her heart.
She deals with all the correspondence promptly and efficiently.
They arrived promptly at two o'clock.
She read the letter and promptly burst into tears.
prone to injury
Working without a break makes you more prone to error.
Tired drivers were found to be particularly prone to ignore warning signs.
error-prone
injury-prone
The victim lay prone without moving.
He was found lying in a prone position.
proneness to depression
a two-pronged fork
a three-pronged attack
demonstrative/interrogative/possessive/relative pronouns
Very few people can pronounce my name correctly.
The 'b' in lamb is not pronounced.
to pronounce an opinion
The judge will pronounce sentence today.
She pronounced him the winner of the competition.
I now pronounce you man and wife (= in a marriage ceremony).
She was pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital.
He pronounced the country to be in a state of war.
She pronounced that an error had been made.
'It's pneumonia,' he pronounced gravely.
The judge pronounced for (= in favour of) the defendant.
The minister will pronounce on further security measures later today.
He walked with a pronounced limp.
She has very pronounced views on art.
a guide to English pronunciation
There is more than one pronunciation of 'garage'.
Your pronunciation is excellent.
I expect to see you back here, pronto!
positive/conclusive proof
Can you provide any proof of identity?
Keep the receipt as proof of purchase.
These results are a further proof of his outstanding ability.
There is no proof that the knife belonged to her.
Is the claim capable of proof?
She was checking the proofs of her latest novel.
The sea wall was not proof against the strength of the waves.
rainproof/windproof clothing
The car has childproof locks on the rear doors.
an inflation-proof pension plan
proofed canvas
colour proofing
Has this document been proofread?
to work as a proofreader for a publishing company
Rescuers used props to stop the roof of the tunnel collapsing.
a pit prop (= one used in a coal mine)
He is responsible for all the stage props and lighting.
He propped his bike against the wall.
She propped herself up on one elbow.
He lay propped against the pillows.
The door was propped open.
The government was accused of propping up declining industries.
enemy propaganda
a propaganda campaign
a propagandist organization
Television advertising propagates a false image of the ideal family.
The plant can be propagated from seed.
Plants won't propagate in these conditions.
a propane gas cylinder
mechanically propelled vehicles
He succeeded in propelling the ball across the line.
He was grabbed from behind and propelled through the door.
Fury propelled her into action.
He showed a propensity for violence.
She has a propensity to exaggerate.
We should have had a proper discussion before voting.
Please follow the proper procedures for dealing with complaints.
Nothing is in its proper place.
Eat some proper food, not just toast and jam!
When are you going to get a proper job?
It is right and proper that parents take responsibility for their children's attendance at school.
The development was planned without proper regard to the interests of local people.
He is always perfectly proper in his behaviour.
The celebrations proper always begin on the last stroke of midnight.
We're in a proper mess now.
They should be treated with the dignity proper to all individuals created by God.
How much money do we need to do the job properly?
The television isn't working properly.
Make sure the letter is properly addressed.
You acted perfectly properly in approaching me first.
When will these kids learn to behave properly?
He had usurped powers that properly belonged to parliament.
The subject is not, properly speaking (= really), a science.
Be careful not to damage other people's property.
property prices
a property developer
There are a lot of empty properties in the area.
Compare the physical properties of the two substances.
a plant with medicinal properties
to fulfil a prophecy (= make it come true)
She was believed to have the gift of prophecy.
to prophesy war
She prophesied that she would win a gold medal.
'It will end in disaster,' he prophesied.
William Morris was one of the early prophets of socialism.
Many of his warnings proved prophetic.
the prophetic books of the Old Testament
prophylactic treatment
a proprietary medicine
proprietary brands
a proprietary name
The company has a proprietary right to the property.
Sacrifices were made to propitiate the gods.
She saw the flowers as a propitiatory offering.
It was not a propitious time to start a new business.
Salary is proportional to years of experience.
to be directly/inversely proportional to sth
Families with children spend proportionally less per person than families without children.
The number of accidents is proportionate to the increased volume of traffic.
Prices have risen but wages have not risen proportionately.
a well-proportioned living room
She was tall and perfectly proportioned.
to submit/consider/accept/reject a proposal
a proposal to build more office accommodation
His proposal that the system should be changed was rejected.
The proposal for a new high-speed railway met with strong opposition.
The government proposed changes to the voting system.
What would you propose?
She proposed that the book be banned.
(BrE also ) She proposed that the book should be banned.
It was proposed that the president be elected for a period of two years.
He proposed changing the name of the company.
It was proposed to pay the money from public funds.
What do you propose to do now?
How do you propose getting home?
He was afraid that if he proposed she might refuse.
She proposed to me!
to propose marriage
I propose Tom Ellis for chairman.
to propose a motion (= to be the main speaker in support of an idea at a formal debate)
She proposed a possible solution to the mystery.
I'd like to put a business proposition to you.
He was trying to make it look like an attractive proposition.
Getting a work permit in the UK is not always a simple proposition.
How did you vote on Proposition 8?
Her assessment is based on the proposition that power corrupts.
She was propositioned by a strange man in the bar.
the theory of natural selection, first propounded by Charles Darwin
Nobody questioned the propriety of her being there alone.
They were careful to observe the proprieties.
proprietorial rights
He laid a proprietorial hand on her arm (= as if he owned her).
wind/steam/jet propulsion
a prosaic style
the prosaic side of life
a traditional theatre with a proscenium arch (= one that forms a frame for the stage where the curtain is opened)
proscribed organizations
the author's clear elegant prose (= style of writing)
The company was prosecuted for breaching the Health and Safety Act.
Trespassers will be prosecuted (= a notice telling people to keep out of a particular area).
The police decided not to prosecute.
the prosecuting counsel/lawyer/attorney
James Spencer, prosecuting, claimed that the witness was lying.
They had overwhelming public support to prosecute the war.
Prosecution for a first minor offence rarely leads to imprisonment.
He threatened to bring a private prosecution against the doctor.
He was a witness for the prosecution.
The prosecution has/have failed to prove its/their case.
defence and prosecution
a prosecution lawyer
the public/state prosecutor
There is no immediate prospect of peace.
A place in the semi-finals is in prospect (= likely to happen).
There's a reasonable prospect that his debts will be paid.
an exciting prospect
Travelling alone around the world is a daunting prospect.
The prospect of becoming a father filled him with alarm.
good job/employment/career prospects
At 25 he was an unemployed musician with no prospects.
Long-term prospects for the economy have improved.
What are the prospects of promotion in this job?
She is one of Canada's best prospects for a gold medal.
a delightful prospect of the lake
Thousands moved to the area to prospect for gold.
(figurative) to prospect for new clients
a prospective buyer
They are worried about prospective changes in the law.
Our future prosperity depends on economic growth.
The country is enjoying a period of peace and prosperity.
prosperous countries
a prosthetic arm
Many felt he was prostituting his talents by writing Hollywood scripts.
Many women were forced into prostitution.
child prostitution
They fell prostrate in worship.
He stumbled over Luke's prostrate body.
She was prostrate with grief after her son's death.
He was expecting to find her prostrated by the tragedy.
For months he was prostrated with grief.
a state of prostration brought on by the heat
a leading protagonist of the conservation movement
a protean character
Troops have been sent to protect aid workers against attack.
They huddled together to protect themselves from the wind.
Each company is fighting to protect its own commercial interests.
a paint that helps protect against rust
a protected area/species
protected markets
Many policies do not protect you against personal injury.
Wear clothes that provide adequate protection against the wind and rain.
He asked to be put under police protection.
the conservation and protection of the environment
data protection laws
They wore the charm as a protection against evil spirits.
Our policy offers complete protection against fire and theft.
The government is ready to introduce protection for the car industry.
to pay protection money
to run a protection racket
protectionist policies
Workers should wear full protective clothing.
a protective layer of varnish
a protective barrier against the sun's rays
She had been fiercely protective towards him as a teenager.
He was extremely protective of his role as advisor.
He put a protective arm around her shoulders.
Parents can easily become over-protective of their children (= want to protect them too much).
protective tariffs
She clutched her bag protectively.
I regarded him as my friend and protector.
the company's image as a protector of the environment
Hard hats and ear protectors are provided.
a protégé of the great violinist Yehudi Menuhin
essential proteins and vitamins
protein deficiency
Peas, beans and lentils are a good source of vegetable protein.
The director resigned in protest at the decision.
The announcement raised a storm of protest.
a protest march
She accepted the charge without protest.
The workers staged a protest against the proposed changes in their contracts.
The building work will go ahead, despite protests from local residents.
The riot began as a peaceful protest.
She wrote a letter of apology but only under protest.
Students took to the streets to protest against the decision.
The victim's widow protested at the leniency of the sentence.
There's no use protesting, I won't change my mind.
(NAmE) They fully intend to protest the decision.
She has always protested her innocence.
He protested that the journey was too far by car.
'That's not what you said earlier!' Jane protested.
He's a Protestant.
The majority of the population is Protestant.
a Protestant church/country
She repeated her protestation of innocence.
Despite his protestation to the contrary, he was extremely tired.
Thousands of protesters marched through the city.
prototype
proto-modernist painters
a breach of protocol
the protocol of diplomatic visits
the first Geneva Protocol
It is set out in a legally binding protocol which forms part of the treaty.
the prototype of the modern bicycle
protracted delays/disputes/negotiations
protruding teeth
He hung his coat on a nail protruding from the wall.
a protrusion on the rock face
protuberant eyes
the proud owner of a new car
Your achievements are something to be proud of.
He was proud of himself for not giving up.
I feel very proud to be a part of the team.
She was proud that her daughter had so much talent.
This is the proudest moment of my life.
The car had been his proudest possession.
She was too proud to admit she could be wrong.
They were a proud and independent people.
Don't be too proud to ask for help.
The sunflowers stretched tall and proud to the sun.
She proudly displayed her prize.
The Matterhorn rose proudly in the background.
We'll buy everything you produce, provided of course the price is right.
Provided that you have the money in your account, you can withdraw up to £100 a day.
They hope this new evidence will prove her innocence.
'I know you're lying.' 'Prove it!'
He felt he needed to prove his point (= show other people that he was right).
Are you just doing this to prove a point?
What are you trying to prove?
I certainly don't have anything to prove —my record speaks for itself.
Just give me a chance and I'll prove it to you.
This proves (that) I was right.
She was determined to prove everyone wrong.
In this country, you are innocent until proved guilty.
You've just proved yourself to be a liar.
This just proves what I have been saying for some time.
Can it be proved that he did commit these offences?
The opposition proved too strong for him.
Shares in the industry proved a poor investment.
The promotion proved to be a turning point in his career.
He constantly feels he has to prove himself to others.
He proved himself determined to succeed.
a student of proven ability
It is a proven fact that fluoride strengthens growing teeth.
All the furniture is of English provenance.
There's no proof about the provenance of the painting (= whether it is genuine or not).
Let's not count our proverbial chickens.
Their hospitality is proverbial.
The hospital has a commitment to provide the best possible medical care.
The report was not expected to provide any answers.
Please answer questions in the space provided.
We are here to provide a service for the public.
We are here to provide the public with a service.
The charity aims to provide assistance to people in need.
The final section provides that any work produced for the company is thereafter owned by the company.
The legislation provides for the detention of suspected terrorists for up to seven days.
to trust in divine providence
training providers
We are one of the largest providers of employment in the area.
The eldest son is the family's sole provider (= the only person who earns money).
the provinces of Canada
The show will tour the provinces after it closes in London.
a shy young man from the provinces
Such decisions are normally the province of higher management.
I'm afraid the matter is outside my province (= I cannot or need not deal with it).
provincial assemblies/elections
a provincial town
It's an ideal proving ground for the new car.
(figurative) The club is the proving ground for young boxers.
housing provision
The government is responsible for the provision of health care.
There is no provision for anyone to sit down here.
The provision of specialist teachers is being increased.
He had already made provisions for (= planned for the financial future of) his wife and children before the accident.
You should make provision for things going wrong.
Under the provisions of the lease, the tenant is responsible for repairs.
a provisional government
provisional arrangements
The booking is only provisional.
The meeting has been provisionally arranged for Friday.
Their participation is subject to a number of important provisos.
He agreed to their visit with the proviso that they should stay no longer than one week.
He reacted violently only under provocation.
The terrorists can strike at any time without provocation.
She bursts into tears at the slightest provocation.
So far the police have refused to respond to their provocations.
a provocative remark
He doesn't really mean that—he's just being deliberately provocative.
a provocative smile
The announcement provoked a storm of protest.
The article was intended to provoke discussion.
Dairy products may provoke allergic reactions in some people.
The lawyer claimed his client was provoked into acts of violence by the defendant.
Be careful what you say—he's easily provoked.
academic/sporting prowess
The tiger prowled through the undergrowth.
A man was seen prowling around outside the factory just before the fire started.
He prowled the empty rooms of the house at night.
You can vote either in person or by proxy.
a proxy vote
Your proxy will need to sign the form on your behalf.
They were like proxy parents to me.
She is acting as proxy for her husband.
The number of patients on a doctor's list was seen as a good proxy for assessing how hard they work.
She's been on Prozac for two years.
a prudent businessman
a prudent decision/investment
It might be more prudent to get a second opinion before going ahead.
stewed prunes
When should you prune apple trees?
He pruned the longer branches off the tree.
The hedge needs pruning back.
Staff numbers have been pruned back to 175.
Prune out any unnecessary details.
All roses require annual pruning.
The company would benefit from a little pruning here and there.
PS Could you send me your fax number again?
She added a PS asking me to water the plants.
the Book of Psalms
pseudo-intellectual
pseudo-science
She writes under a pseudonym.
Psst! Let's get out now before they see us!
I'd got myself all psyched up for the interview and then it was called off at the last minute.
the human psyche
She knew, at some deep level of her psyche, that what she was doing was wrong.
a psychiatric hospital/nurse
psychiatric treatment
psychiatric disorders
psychic energy/forces/phenomena/powers
psychic healing
She claims to be psychic and helps people to contact the dead.
How am I supposed to know—I'm not psychic!
psychology
psychiatric
a psychoanalytic approach
the psychological development of children
Abuse can lead to both psychological and emotional problems.
Her symptoms are more psychological than physical (= imaginary rather than real).
Victory in the last game gave them a psychological advantage over their opponents.
a psychological novel (= one that examines the minds of the characters)
psychological research
psychologically harmful
Psychologically, the defeat was devastating.
social/educational/child psychology
the psychology of small boys
Watching the shoppers at the sales gave her a first-hand insight into crowd psychology.
the psychology of interpersonal relationships
a clinical psychologist (= one who treats people with mental disorders or problems)
psychometric testing
a psychopathic disorder/killer
a psychotic disorder/illness
a psychotic patient
psychotropic medication/drugs
Shakespeare's Henry IV Pt 2
The winner scored 10 pts.
Pt. Moresby
The course is 1 year FT, 2 years PT.
Pte Jim Hill
Computer Software Packages Pty Ltd
They've gone down the pub for a drink.
a pub lunch
the landlord of the local pub
to reach puberty
pubic hair
the pubic bone
The campaign is designed to increase public awareness of the issues.
Levels of waste from the factory may be a danger to public health.
Why would the closure of hospitals be in the public interest (= useful to ordinary people)?
The government had to bow to public pressure.
a public education system
a public library
public money/spending/funding/expenditure
He spent much of his career in public office (= working in the government).
(BrE) the public purse (= the money that the government can spend)
The rail industry is no longer in public ownership (= controlled by the government).
a public figure (= a person who is well known because they are often on the television, radio, etc.)
Details of the government report have not yet been made public.
She entered public life (= started a job in which she became known to the public) at the age of 25.
a public apology
The painting will be put on public display next week.
This may be the band's last public appearance together.
Let's go somewhere a little less public.
a publicly owned company
He later publicly apologized for his comments.
This information is not publicly available.
The palace is now open to the public.
There have been many complaints from members of the public.
The public has/have a right to know what is contained in the report.
the theatre-going public
She knows how to keep her public (= for example, the people who buy her books) satisfied.
public access to the countryside
a public access channel
The information has been placed in the public domain.
public domain software
public enemy number one (= the person or thing that is most frightening or that is most hated)
He was charged with committing (a) public nuisance.
The media has a powerful influence on public opinion.
Sophie became public property when she married into the royal family.
She works in public relations.
a public relations exercise
Sponsoring the local team is good for public relations.
He was educated at (a) public school.
pay increases for public servants
a long and outstanding career as a public servant
to improve public services in the area
a public service broadcast
to perform a public service
to work in public service
public service workers
to travel on/by public transport
Most of us use public transport to get to work.
a public-spirited act
That was very public-spirited of you.
the publication date
the publication of his first novel
specialist publications
a delay in the publication of the exam results
The newspaper continues to defend its publication of the photographs.
They flew to Europe to publicize the plight of the refugees.
a much/highly/widely publicized speech (= that has received a lot of attention on television, in newspapers, etc.)
He was in London publicizing his new biography of Kennedy.
good/bad/adverse publicity
There has been a great deal of publicity surrounding his disappearance.
The trial took place amid a blaze of (= a lot of) publicity.
publicity material
a publicity campaign
The band dressed up as the Beatles as a publicity stunt.
The first edition was published in 2007.
He works for a company that publishes reference books.
Most of our titles are also published on CD-ROM.
Pictures of the suspect were published in all the daily papers.
The report will be published on the Internet.
She hasn't published anything for years.
University teachers are under pressure to publish.
The findings of the committee will be published on Friday.
a publishing house (= company)
His face was puce with rage.
to make a purchase (= buy sth)
Keep your receipt as proof of purchase.
The company has just announced its £27 million purchase of Park Hotel.
major purchases, such as a new car
If you are not satisfied with your purchase we will give you a full refund.
She tried to get a purchase on the slippery rock.
The equipment can be purchased from your local supplier.
They purchased the land for $1 million.
(figurative) Victory was purchased (= achieved) at too great a price.
His face puckered, and he was ready to cry.
She puckered her lips.
puckered fabric
What's for pudding?
I haven't made a pudding today.
treacle pudding
bread and butter pudding (= made with bread, butter and milk)
a steak and kidney pudding
chocolate pudding
He puffed (away) on his pipe.
I sat puffing my cigar.
Chimneys were puffing out clouds of smoke.
Steam puffed out.
I was starting to puff a little from the climb.
The train puffed into the station.
She puffed out her cheeks.
Her cheeks puffed up.
The frog puffed itself up.
He had a few puffs at the cigar.
Take two puffs from the inhaler every four hours.
a puff of wind
Puffs of white smoke came from the chimney.
Any chance of success seemed to vanish in a puff of smoke (= to disappear quickly).
The hill was very steep and I soon ran out of puff.
Her eyes were puffy from crying.
The baby puked all over me this morning.
That guy makes me puke!(= makes me angry)
I puked up my dinner.
to be covered in puke
You push and I'll pull.
Don't pull so hard or the handle will come off.
I pulled on the rope to see if it was secure.
Stop pulling her hair!
She pulled him gently towards her.
Pull the door shut.
Pull the plug out.
She pulled off her boots.
He pulled a gun on me (= took out a gun and aimed it at me).
Pull your chair nearer the table.
He pulled on his sweater.
She took his arm and pulled him along.
In this area oxen are used to pull carts.
He tried to kiss her but she pulled away.
The dog snapped at her and she quickly pulled back her hand.
John pulled himself free and ran off.
Pull the curtains—it's dark outside.
to pull a muscle/ligament/tendon
Pull the lever to start the motor.
Don't pull the trigger!
The wheel is pulling to the left.
She pulled the car to the right to avoid the dog.
The old car pulled hard as we drove slowly up the hill.
They pulled towards the shore.
They pulled in huge crowds on their latest tour.
He can still pull the girls.
She's hoping to pull tonight.
He's pulling some sort of trick on you.
The gig was pulled at the last moment.
Her articles certainly don't pull any punches.
You're going to have to pull your socks up.
The cyclists were together until the bend, when Tyler pulled ahead.
They waved as the bus pulled away.
Their sponsors pulled back at the last minute.
Rangers pulled back to 4–3.
They pulled back a goal just before half-time.
I reckon she's pulling in over $100 000.
The police car signalled to us to pull in.
We pulled off the deal.
I never thought you'd pull it off.
A car suddenly pulled out in front of me.
The project became so expensive that we had to pull out.
They are pulling their troops out of the war zone.
The doctors think she will pull through.
It's going to be tough but we'll pull through it together.
I relied on my instincts to pull me through.
Stop crying and pull yourself together!
He pulled up at the traffic lights.
I gave the door a sharp pull and it opened.
the earth's gravitational pull
The magnetic pull of the city was hard to resist.
people who have a lot of pull with the media
She took a long pull on her cigarette.
It's a long pull up to the summit.
a bell/door pull
a pull-down bed
an eight-page pull-out on health
a pull-out guide
I was brought up short by a terrible thought.
a system of ropes and pulleys
a pullulating mass of people
Cook the fruit gently until it forms a pulp.
His face had been beaten to a pulp (= very badly beaten).
paper/wood pulp
Cook the fruit slowly until soft and pulpy.
Unsold copies of the novel had to be pulped.
pulped fruit
pulp fiction
pulsating rhythms
a pulsating headache
Lights were pulsating in the sky.
a pulsating game
The streets were pulsating with life.
a strong/weak pulse
an abnormally high pulse rate
The doctor took/felt my pulse.
Fear sent her pulse racing (= made it beat very quickly).
the throbbing pulse of the drums
pulse waves
sound pulses
A vein pulsed in his temple.
the pulsing rhythm of the music
The auditorium pulsed with excitement.
We pulverized the opposition.
Pumpkin pie is a traditional American dish served on Thanksgiving.
He pummelled the pillow with his fists.
(figurative) She pummelled (= strongly criticized) her opponents.
Her fists pummelled at his chest.
She washed her face at the pump in front of the inn.
(BrE) a petrol pump
(NAmE) a gas pump
a foot/hand pump (= that you work by using your foot or hand)
a bicycle pump
ballet pumps
The engine is used for pumping water out of the mine.
The heart pumps blood around the body.
The lake had been pumped dry.
Blood was pumping out of his wound.
He kept pumping my hand up and down.
I pumped the handle like crazy.
She sprinted for the line, legs pumping.
My heart was pumping with excitement.
See if you can pump him for more details.
They pumped her full of painkillers.
He pumped all his savings into the business.
It's difficult to pump facts and figures into tired students.
loudspeakers pumping out rock music
Our cars pump out thousands of tonnes of poisonous fumes every year.
Interest rates were pumped up last week.
a pump-action shotgun
a pump-action spray
We're banking on them lending us the money—no pun intended!
He was kicked and punched as he lay on the ground.
He was punching the air in triumph.
She punched him on the nose.
to punch a time card
The machine punches a row of holes in the metal sheet.
I punched the button to summon the elevator.
He's one of boxing's strongest punchers.
This player seems to be able to constantly punch above his weight.
He punched in the security code.
He picked up the telephone and punched out his friend's number.
I felt as if all my teeth had been punched out.
a punch in the face
Hill threw a punch at the police officer.
a knockout punch
He shot out his right arm and landed a punch on Lorrimer's nose.
It's a well-constructed crime story, told with speed and punch.
a hole punch
a punctilious host
She has been reliable and punctual.
a punctual start at 9 o'clock
They always pay punctually.
Her speech was punctuated by bursts of applause.
I had a puncture on the way and arrived late.
to puncture a tyre
She was taken to the hospital with broken ribs and a punctured lung.
One of the front tyres had punctured.
to puncture sb's confidence
pungent criticism
The lamb was a puny little thing.
They laughed at my puny efforts.
Those responsible for this crime will be severely punished.
My parents used to punish me by not letting me watch TV.
He was punished for refusing to answer their questions.
In those days murder was always punished with the death penalty.
a crime punishable by/with imprisonment
Giving false information to the police is a punishable offence.
The President has a punishing schedule for the next six months.
to inflict/impose/mete out punishment
What is the punishment for murder?
There is little evidence that harsher punishments deter any better than more lenient ones.
The punishment should fit the crime.
He was sent to his room as a punishment.
The carpet by the door takes the most punishment.
There are calls for more punitive measures against people who drink and drive.
(NAmE) He was awarded punitive damages (= in a court of law).
punitive taxes
a punk band
a punk haircut
The investment is little more than a punt.
We spent the day punting on the river.
to go punting
It's important to keep the punters happy.
a seal pup
How many pupils does the school have?
She now teaches only private pupils.
The painting is by a pupil of Rembrandt.
Her pupils were dilated.
a hand puppet
a puppet show
The occupying forces set up a puppet government.
a Labrador puppy
the peso's purchasing power
to be in purdah
He kept his daughters in virtual purdah.
pure gold/silk, etc.
These shirts are 100% pure cotton.
Classical dance in its purest form requires symmetry and balance.
One movie is classified as pure art, the other as entertainment.
a bottle of pure water
The air was sweet and pure.
They met by pure chance.
She laughed with pure joy.
beaches of pure white sand
a pure voice
to lead a pure life
His motives were pure.
(literary) to be pure in body and mind
pure mathematics
technology as opposed to pure science subjects
These cattle are one of the purest breeds in Britain.
It's laziness, pure and simple.
apple purée
I saw the letter purely by chance.
The charity is run on a purely voluntary basis.
She took the job purely and simply for the money.
Getting up at four o'clock every morning is sheer purgatory.
His first act as leader was to purge the party of extremists.
He purged extremists from the party.
We need to purge our sport of racism.
Nothing could purge the guilt from her mind.
One tablet will purify a litre of water.
Hindus purify themselves by bathing in the River Ganges.
a water purification plant
an air/a water purifier
Their parents had a puritanical streak and didn't approve of dancing.
The purity of the water is tested regularly.
spiritual purity
a purple flower
His face was purple with rage.
She was dressed in purple.
purplish lips
The book does not purport to be a complete history of the period.
the scene of the purported crime
a letter purportedly written by Mozart
He sat down, purposely avoiding her gaze.
Purposeful work is an important part of the regime for young offenders.
She looked purposeful and determined.
purposeless destruction
a purring engine
The car purred away.
He was purring with satisfaction.
the purr of a cat/a car engine
I took a coin out of my purse and gave it to the child.
We have holidays to suit every purse.
Should spending on the arts be met out of the public purse (= from government money)?
Who holds the purse strings in your house?
The government will have to tighten the purse strings (= spend less).
a purulent discharge from the wound
We pushed and pushed but the piano wouldn't move.
Push hard when I tell you to.
She pushed at the door but it wouldn't budge.
He walked slowly up the hill pushing his bike.
She pushed the cup towards me.
He pushed his chair back and stood up.
He tried to kiss her but she pushed him away.
She pushed her face towards him.
I pushed the door open.
People were pushing and shoving to get to the front.
The fans pushed against the barrier.
Try and push your way through the crowd.
This development could push the country into recession.
The rise in interest rates will push prices up.
I pushed the button for the top floor.
My teacher pushed me into entering the competition.
No one pushed you to take the job, did they?
The music teacher really pushes her pupils.
Lucy should push herself a little harder.
Her parents are very tolerant, but sometimes she pushes them too far.
The interview gave him a chance to push his latest movie.
She didn't want to push the point any further at that moment.
The army pushed (on) towards the capital.
The government is pushing ahead with its electoral reforms.
He pushed aside the feelings of fear.
The start of the game was pushed back from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
The pressure group is pushing for a ban on GM foods.
I'm going to have to push you for an answer.
She had to push herself forward to get a promotion.
Hey, what are you doing? Push off!
We rested for a while then pushed on to the next camp.
factories pushing out cheap cotton shirts
Sam pushed me over in the playground.
The government is pushing the changes through before the election.
She gave him a gentle push.
The car won't start. Can you give it a push?
At the push of a button (= very easily) he could get a whole list of names.
a final push against the enemy
(figurative) The firm has begun a major push into the European market.
The push for reform started in 2007.
He wants to open his own business, but needs a push in the right direction to get him started.
allegations of push polling
a push-button phone
The plan was abandoned because the pushback from the military was so strong.
You'll be hard pushed to finish this today.
to be pushed for money/time
I know you're pushed, but can you make tomorrow's meeting?
drug pushers
a pushy salesman
The game will be a pushover.
I don't think she'll agree—she's no pushover.
He's just a pussycat really, once you get to know him.
Put the cases down there, please.
Did you put sugar in my coffee?
Put your hand up if you need more paper.
He put his fist through a glass door.
Her family put her into a nursing home.
It was the year the Americans put a man on the moon.
We had to put new locks on all the doors.
Put your name here.
Friday at 11? I'll put it in my diary.
I couldn't read what she had put.
I was put in charge of the office.
The incident put her in a bad mood.
Put yourself in my position. What would you have done?
I tried to put the matter into perspective.
Don't go putting yourself at risk.
It was time to put their suggestion into practice.
This new injury will put him out of action for several weeks.
Her new job has put a great strain on her.
They put pressure on her to resign.
It's time you put a stop to this childish behaviour.
Our company puts the emphasis on quality.
He put a limit on the amount we could spend.
I'd put her in the top rank of modern novelists.
She put it very tactfully.
Put simply, we accept their offer or go bankrupt.
I was, to put it mildly, annoyed (= I was extremely angry).
He was too trusting—or, to put it another way, he had no head for business.
The meat was— how shall I put it? —a little overdone.
As T.S. Eliot puts it…
She had never tried to put this feeling into words.
Can you help me put this letter into good English, please?
I put it to you that you are the only person who had a motive for the crime.
Don't try to put one over on me!
They really put me through it (= asked me difficult questions) at the interview.
Your department spent more last year than all the others put together.
Someone's been putting it about that you plan to resign.
She's not very good at putting her views across.
They decided to put aside their differences.
We put some money aside every month for our retirement.
I put aside half an hour every day to write my diary.
The damage to the building is put at over $1 million.
I'm just going to put the car away (= in the garage).
She has a few thousand dollars put away for her retirement.
He must have put away a bottle of whisky last night.
If you use something, put it back!
The meeting has been put back to next week.
Poor trading figures put back our plans for expansion.
Remember to put your clocks back tonight (= because the time has officially changed).
I'm putting by part of my wages every week to buy a bike.
He put down in a field.
Put that knife down before you hurt somebody!
It's a great book. I couldn't put it down.
(BrE) She put the phone down on me (= ended the call before I had finished speaking).
The meeting's on the 22nd. Put it down in your diary.
We put a 5% deposit down on the house.
to put down a rebellion
The military government is determined to put down all opposition.
We had to have our cat put down.
Can you be quiet—I've just put the baby down.
to put down a motion/an amendment
I'd put them both down as retired teachers.
Put me down for three tickets for Saturday.
They've put their son down for the local school.
What do you put her success down to?
Can I put you/your name forward for club secretary?
We've put the wedding forward by one week.
Remember to put your clocks forward tonight (= because the time has officially changed).
to put forward a suggestion
Who will the voters put in this time?
We're having a new shower put in.
Could I put in a word?
'But what about us?' he put in.
The company has put in a claim for damages.
All the actors put in great performances.
She often puts in twelve hours' work a day.
He's putting a lot of work into improving his French.
He's put all his savings into buying that house.
They put in at Lagos for repairs.
Are you going to put in for that job?
He put as much feeling into his voice as he could.
It's too late to put them off now.
She's very clever but her manner does tend to put people off.
Don't be put off by how it looks—it tastes delicious.
Don't put me off when I'm trying to concentrate.
The sudden noise put her off her game.
I asked the bus driver to put me off at the station.
He was put off science by bad teaching.
The accident put her off driving for life.
We've had to put off our wedding until September.
He keeps putting off going to the dentist.
Hi, Dad—can you put Nicky on?
Hurry up! Put your coat on!
She's just putting on her make-up.
I'll put the kettle on for tea.
She put on the brakes suddenly.
Do you mind if I put some music on?
He put some jazz on the stereo.
She looks like she's put on weight.
He must have put on several kilos.
The city is putting on extra buses during the summer.
The local drama club is putting on 'Macbeth'.
He put on an American accent.
I don't think she was hurt. She was just putting it on.
The government has put ten pence on the price of twenty cigarettes.
I've never put money on a horse.
I put £5 on him to win.
What first put the police onto the scam?
Who put you onto this restaurant—it's great!
Please don't put yourself out on my account.
I hope our arriving late didn't put them out.
He looked really put out.
These pills should put him out for a few hours.
(BrE) to put the rubbish out
(NAmE) to put the garbage/trash out
Have you put out clean towels for the guests?
to put out a candle/cigarette/light
Firefighters soon put the fire out.
The factory puts out 500 new cars a week.
Police have put out a description of the man they wish to question.
A lot of the work is put out to freelancers.
The rise in interest rates put our estimates out by several thousands.
She fell off her horse and put her shoulder out.
to put out to sea
We put out from Liverpool.
We managed to put the deal through.
You have put your family through a lot recently.
He put all his children through college.
Could you put me through to the manager, please?
I hope we're not putting you to too much trouble.
Your proposal will be put to the board of directors.
The audience is now invited to put questions to the speaker.
to put together a model plane/an essay/a meal
I think we can put together a very strong case for the defence.
Here's $100 to put towards your ski trip.
They surrendered without putting up much of a fight.
The team put up a great performance (= played very well).
to put up an argument/a case/a proposal
We can put you up for the night.
The Green Party hopes to put up more candidates in the next election.
to put up a flag
She's put her hair up.
to put up a building/fence/memorial/tent
to put up a notice
They've put up the rent by £20 a month.
A local businessman has put up the £500 000 needed to save the club.
We put up at a motel.
She is putting up for election to the committee.
Some of the older boys must have put him up to it.
I don't know how she puts up with him.
I'm not going to put up with their smoking any longer.
After ten years travelling the world, she felt it was time to put down roots somewhere.
The interviewer's questions really put him on the spot.
I tried hard but her work put mine in the shade.
Their presentation put ours to shame.
His theories have never really been put to the test.
She no longer puts much stock in their claims.
to sleep well/deeply/soundly/badly
I couldn't sleep because of the noise.
I had to sleep on the sofa.
He slept solidly for ten hours.
I slept at my sister's house last night (= stayed the night there).
We both slept right through (= were not woken up by) the storm.
She only sleeps for four hours a night.
We sometimes sleep late at the weekends (= until late in the morning).
I put the sleeping baby down gently.
What are our sleeping arrangements here (= where shall we sleep)?
It was clear her bed hadn't been slept in.
The apartment sleeps six.
The hotel sleeps 120 guests.
Goodnight, sleep tight!
Let's leave him to sleep it off.
Could I sleep on it and let you know tomorrow?
It's very late now—why don't you sleep over?
Can I sleep over at my friend's house?
I know he's going out with her, but I don't think they're sleeping together.
Everyone knows she sleeps with the boss.
I need to get some sleep.
I didn't get much sleep last night.
Can you give me something to help me get to sleep (= start sleeping)?
Go to sleep —it's late.
He cried out in his sleep.
Anxiety can be caused by lack of sleep.
His talk nearly sent me to sleep (= it was boring).
Try to go back to sleep.
Did you have a good sleep?
Ros fell into a deep sleep.
I'll feel better after a good night's sleep (= a night when I sleep well).
He's inclined to put two and two together and make five (= reaches the wrong conclusion from what he sees, hears, etc.).
his much put-upon wife
It took me ages to put things to rights after the workmen had left.
the putative father of this child
the putrid smell of rotten meat
a putrid pink colour
the puttering of the engine as it reduced speed
I spent the morning puttering around the house.
a crossword puzzle
a book of puzzles for children
What puzzles me is why he left the country without telling anyone.
one of the most puzzling aspects of the crime
He was trying to puzzle out why he had been brought to the house.
She had a puzzled look on her face.
Scientists are puzzled as to why the whale had swum to the shore.
He looked puzzled so I repeated the question.
She frowned in puzzlement.
He regarded them as intellectual pygmies.
a pygmy shrew
He was dressed in a pyjama and kurta, ideal for a summer evening.
a pair of pyjamas
pyjama bottoms
a pyramid of cans in a shop window
a management pyramid
iron/copper pyrites
guitar pyrotechnics
'Queen' begins with (a) Q/'Q'.
He quoted a passage from the minister's speech.
to quote Shakespeare
Quote this reference number in all correspondence.
The President was quoted in the press as saying that he disagreed with the decision.
'It will all be gone tomorrow.' ' Can I quote you on that? '
Don't quote me on this (= this is not an official statement), but I think he is going to resign.
She said, and I quote, 'Life is meaningless without love.'
'The man who is tired of London is tired of life,' he quoted.
Can you quote me an instance of when this happened?
They quoted us £300 for installing a shower unit.
Yesterday the pound was quoted at $1.8285, unchanged from Monday.
Several football clubs are now quoted on the Stock Exchange.
It was quote, 'the hardest decision of my life', unquote, and one that he lived to regret.
The essay was full of quotes.
Their quote for the job was way too high.
If you take text from other sources, place it in quotes.
The soldier acted qua soldier, not as a human being.
quack doctors
I've got a check-up with the quack (= the doctor) next week.
a quadratic equation
quadrilateral
quadruplet
Sales have quadrupled in the last five years.
a quadruple alliance
a quadruple whisky
This year we produced quadruple the amount produced in 2013.
quaint old customs
a quaint seaside village
Quaking with fear, Polly slowly opened the door.
The ground quaked as the bomb exploded.
a Quaker school
academic/educational/professional/vocational qualifications
a nursing/teaching, etc. qualification
He left school with no formal qualifications.
to acquire/gain/get/obtain/have/hold qualifications
In this job, experience counts for more than paper qualifications.
Previous teaching experience is a necessary qualification for this job.
I accept his theories, but not without certain qualifications.
The plan was approved without qualification.
Nurses in training should be given a guarantee of employment following qualification.
A victory in this game will earn them qualification for the World Cup.
a qualified accountant/teacher, etc.
to be highly/suitably/fully qualified
She's extremely well qualified for the job.
I don't know much about it, so I don't feel qualified to comment.
The plan was given only qualified support.
The project was only a qualified success.
a World Cup qualifier
In 'the open door', 'open' is a qualifier, describing the door.
How long does it take to qualify?
He qualified as a doctor last year.
This training course will qualify you for a better job.
The test qualifies you to drive heavy vehicles.
If you live in the area, you qualify for a parking permit.
To qualify, you must have lived in this country for at least three years.
Paying a fee doesn't automatically qualify you for membership.
He failed to qualify.
They qualified for the World Cup.
Do you think this dress qualifies as evening wear?
It's an old building, but that doesn't qualify it as an ancient monument!
I want to qualify what I said earlier—I didn't mean he couldn't do the job, only that he would need supervision.
In 'the open door', 'open' is an adjective qualifying 'door'.
qualitative analysis/research
There are qualitative differences between the two products.
qualitatively different
to be of good/poor/top quality
goods of a high quality
a decline in water quality
When costs are cut product quality suffers.
Their quality of life improved dramatically when they moved to France.
contemporary writers of quality
We aim to provide quality at reasonable prices.
personal qualities such as honesty and generosity
to have leadership qualities
the special quality of light and shade in her paintings
We specialize in quality furniture.
quality service at a competitive price
'What was the film like?' 'Quality!'
He had been working very hard so he had no qualms about taking a few days off.
George was in a quandary —should he go or shouldn't he?
a large/small quantity of sth
enormous/vast/huge quantities of food
a product that is cheap to produce in large quantities
Is it available in sufficient quantity?
The data is limited in terms of both quality and quantity.
The police found a quantity of drugs at his home.
It's cheaper to buy goods in quantity.
I was overwhelmed by the sheer quantity of information available.
The risks to health are impossible to quantify.
quantifiable data
quantitative analysis/research
There is no difference between the two in quantitative terms.
The dog was kept in quarantine for six months.
quarantine regulations
a family quarrel
He did not mention the quarrel with his wife.
They had a quarrel about money.
Were you at any time aware of a quarrel between the two of them?
We have no quarrel with his methods.
My sister and I used to quarrel all the time.
She quarrelled with her brother over their father's will.
Nobody could quarrel with your conclusions.
a slate quarry
the site of a disused quarry
The hunters lost sight of their quarry in the forest.
The photographers pursued their quarry through the streets.
The local rock is quarried from the hillside.
The area is being quarried for limestone.
There has been quarrying in the area for centuries.
a quarter of a mile
The programme lasted an hour and a quarter.
Cut the apple into quarters.
The theatre was about three quarters full.
It's (a) quarter to four now—I'll meet you at (a) quarter past.
(NAmE also ) It's quarter of four now—I'll meet you at quarter after.
the Latin quarter
the historic quarter of the city
Support for the plan came from an unexpected quarter.
The news was greeted with dismay in some quarters.
We were moved to more comfortable living quarters.
married quarters
The moon is in its first quarter.
His rivals knew that they could expect no quarter from such a ruthless adversary.
She peeled and quartered an apple.
The soldiers were quartered in the town.
a quarterly meeting of the board
to pay the rent quarterly
the Amadeus Quartet
a Beethoven string quartet
the last in a quartet of novels
women in the fourth quartile of height (= the shortest 25% of women)
His conviction was later quashed by the Court of Appeal.
The rumours were quickly quashed.
a quasi-scientific explanation
a quasi-official body
to celebrate the quatercentenary of Shakespeare's birth
'I'm not safe here, am I?' she asked in a quavering voice.
a quavery voice
A crowd was waiting on the quay.
crowds waiting on/at the quayside to welcome them
to be crowned queen
kings and queens
the Queen of Norway
Queen Victoria
the queen of fashion
a movie queen
Venice, queen of the Adriatic
a carnival queen
a May queen (= at a festival to celebrate the coming of spring)
a homecoming queen
a queen bee
Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother
His face was a queer pink colour.
He looked at me queerly.
Extra police were called in to quell the disturbances.
(figurative) She started to giggle, but Bob quelled her with a look.
to quell your fears
Firemen tried to quench the flames raging through the building.
Our assistants will be happy to answer your queries.
If you have a query about your insurance policy, contact our helpline.
Put a query against Jack's name—I'm not sure if he's coming.
We queried the bill as it seemed far too high.
I'm not in a position to query their decision.
'Who will be leading the team?' queried Simon.
the quest for happiness/knowledge/truth
He set off in quest of adventure.
to ask/answer a question
The question is, how much are they going to pay you?
(formal) The question arises as to whether or not he knew of the situation.
The key question of what caused the leak remains unanswered.
(formal) He put a question to the minister about the recent reforms.
I hope the police don't ask any awkward questions.
In an interview try to ask open questions that don't just need 'Yes' or 'No' as an answer.
There will be time for questions at the end, if you'd like to save them up till then.
If you don't mind, we'll take all of your questions at the end of the presentation.
We've set aside/We're saving the last 15 minutes for questions.
If you have questions, please feel free to ask them as we go along.
That's an interesting point. Perhaps I can answer it like this…
I'm not sure I understand your question.
If I understand your question correctly, what you're asking is…
That's something we probably need to look into further.
Does that answer your question?
I hope that answers your question.
Can I come back to that point later?
Question 3 was very difficult.
In the exam there's sure to be a question on energy.
Let's look at the question of security.
The question which needs to be addressed is one of funding.
Which route is better remains an open question (= it is not decided).
Her honesty is beyond question.
His suitability for the job is open to question.
Her version of events was accepted without question.
There was no question of his/him cancelling the trip so near the departure date.
She was arrested and questioned about the fire.
The students were questioned on the books they had been studying.
Over half of those questioned said they rarely took any exercise.
I just accepted what he told me. I never thought to question it.
No one has ever questioned her judgement.
He questioned whether the accident was solely the truck driver's fault.
The conclusions that they come to are highly questionable.
It is questionable whether this is a good way of solving the problem.
Her motives for helping are questionable.
to complete a questionnaire
(BrE) to fill in a questionnaire
(especially NAmE) to fill out a questionnaire
He was taken to the police station for questioning.
They faced some hostile questioning over the cost of the project.
a questioning look
She raised a questioning eyebrow.
the bus queue
I had to join a queue for the toilets.
How long were you in the queue?
There was a queue of traffic waiting to turn right.
We had to queue up for an hour for the tickets.
Queue here for taxis.
The system queues the jobs before they are processed.
It isn't worth quibbling over such a small amount.
minor quibbles
She gave him a quick glance.
These cakes are very quick and easy to make.
Would you like a quick drink?
The doctor said she'd make a quick recovery.
It's quicker by train.
Are you sure this is the quickest way?
Have you finished already? That was quick!
His quick thinking saved her life.
He fired three shots in quick succession.
a quick learner
The kids were quick to learn.
She was quick (= too quick) to point out the mistakes I'd made.
Her quick hands suddenly stopped moving.
Try to be quick! We're late already.
Once again, his quick wits (= quick thinking) got him out of an awkward situation.
(NAmE, informal) He's a quick study (= he learns quickly).
We need to make a quick decision.
The company wants quick results.
Read our quick-and-dirty guide to creating a website.
Come as quick as you can!
Let's see who can get there quickest.
It's another of his schemes to get rich quick.
quick-thinking
quick-growing
She has bitten her nails down to the quick.
a series of quick-fire questions
a quick-tempered woman
a quick-witted student/response
She felt her heartbeat quicken as he approached.
He quickened his pace to catch up with them.
His interest quickened as he heard more about the plan.
I've got a question—it's just a quickie.
a quickie divorce
She walked quickly away.
We'll repair it as quickly as possible.
The last few weeks have gone quickly (= the time seems to have passed quickly).
He replied to my letter very quickly.
It quickly became clear that she was dying.
She was known for the quickness of her wit.
He amazes me with his quickness and eagerness to learn.
his quicksilver temperament
Can you lend me five quid?
her quiet voice
a quieter, more efficient engine
Could you keep the kids quiet while I'm on the phone?
He went very quiet (= did not say much) so I knew he was upset.
' Be quiet,' said the teacher.
She crept downstairs (as) quiet as a mouse.
a quiet street
They lead a quiet life.
Business is usually quieter at this time of year.
They had a quiet wedding.
to have a quiet drink
I was looking forward to a quiet evening at home.
She was quiet and shy.
He had an air of quiet authority.
to speak/move quietly
I spent a few hours quietly relaxing.
He is quietly confident that they can succeed (= he is confident, but he is not talking about it too much).
a quietly-spoken woman
the quietness of the countryside
His quietness worried her.
the quiet of his own room
the quiet of the early morning
I go to the library for a little peace and quiet.
The demonstrators quieted down when the police arrived.
He's very good at quieting the kids.
The chatter of voices gradually quietened.
Things seem to have quietened down a bit this afternoon (= we are not so busy, etc.).
a patchwork quilt
a quilted jacket
quince jelly
a flowering quince
the quincentenary of Columbus's voyage to America
It was the quintessence of an English manor house.
a painting that captures the quintessence of Viennese elegance
He was the quintessential tough guy.
the Miles Davis Quintet
a string quintet
men in the first quintile of weight (= the heaviest 20% of men)
Sales have quintupled over the past few years.
to make a quip
By a strange quirk of fate they had booked into the same hotel.
a quirky sense of humour
David quirked an eyebrow and smirked slightly.
Her lips quirked suddenly.
If I don't get more money I'll quit.
He has decided to quit as manager of the team.
He quit the show last year because of bad health.
(NAmE) She quit school at 16.
I've quit smoking.
Just quit it!
We only just started. We're not going to quit now.
We decided it was time to quit the city.
The landlord gave them all notice to quit.
quite big/good/cold/warm/interesting
He plays quite well.
I quite like opera.
quite delicious/amazing/empty/perfect
This is quite a different problem.
I'm quite happy to wait for you here.
(BrE) Flying is quite the best way to travel.
It wasn't quite as simple as I thought it would be.
Quite frankly, I don't blame you.
I've had quite enough of your tantrums.
Are you quite sure?
I quite agree.
I don't quite know what to do next.
Quite apart from all the work, he had financial problems.
(BrE) The theatre was not quite (= was almost) full.
It's like being in the Alps, but not quite.
'I almost think she prefers animals to people.' ' Quite right too,' said Bill.
'I'm sorry to be so difficult.' ' That's quite all right.'
You'll be quite comfortable here.
I can see it quite clearly.
(NAmE) 'You've no intention of coming back?' 'I'm quite sorry, but no, I have not.'
'He's bound to feel shaken after his accident.' 'Quite.'
She's quite a beauty.
We found it quite a change when we moved to London.
He's quite the little gentleman, isn't he?
It must be quite some car.
They drank quite a lot of wine.
She hasn't been seen for quite some time.
Her lip quivered and then she started to cry.
He felt a quiver of excitement run through him.
Jane couldn't help the quiver in her voice.
a general knowledge quiz
a television quiz show
a reading comprehension quiz
Four men are being quizzed by police about the murder.
We were quizzed on our views about education.
You will be quizzed on chapter 6 tomorrow.
a quizzical expression
She looked at him quizzically.
to introduce a strict import quota on grain
a quota system for accepting refugees
I'm going home now—I've done my quota of work for the day.
He was 76 votes short of the quota.
The book began with a quotation from Goethe.
a dictionary of quotations
The writer illustrates his point by quotation from a number of sources.
You need to get a written quotation before they start work.
the latest quotations from the Stock Exchange
'Rose' begins with (an) R/'R'.
Elizabeth R.
R. Trent
the RAC (= Royal Automobile Club)
the Chief Rabbi (= the leader of Jewish communities in a particular country)
Rabbi Sacks
a rabbit hutch
a drunken rabble
a speech that appealed to the rabble
rabid right-wing fanatics
the rabid tabloid press
rabid speculation
a rabid dog
a race between the two best runners of the club
Who won the race?
He's already in training for the big race against Bailey.
Their horse came third in the race last year.
a boat/horse/road, etc. race
a five-kilometre race
Shall we have a race to the end of the beach?
the race for the presidency
The race is on (= has begun) to find a cure for the disease.
to go to the races
the Caucasian/Mongolian, etc. race
people of mixed race
This custom is found in people of all races throughout the world.
legislation against discrimination on the grounds of race or sex
the Nordic races
He admired Canadians as a hardy and determined race.
a race of cattle
Who will he be racing against in the next round?
They raced to a thrilling victory in the relay.
She'll be racing for the senior team next year.
We raced each other back to the car.
Television companies are racing to be the first to screen his life story.
to race dogs/horses/pigeons
to race motorbikes
He raced up the stairs.
The days seemed to race past.
The injured man was raced to the hospital.
She raced her car through the narrow streets of the town.
My mind raced as I tried to work out what was happening.
She took a deep breath to calm her racing pulse.
The truck came to rest against a tree, its engine racing.
Italy's champion downhill racer
an ocean racer
You can't cross the road—it's like a racetrack.
racial hatred/prejudice/tension/violence
racial equality
They have pledged to end racial discrimination in areas such as employment.
racial minorities
a person's racial origin
The attacks were not racially motivated.
racially mixed schools
a racy novel
a racing stable
motor/yacht/greyhound, etc. racing
a racing driver
It's a racing certainty that the vote will go against him.
a victim of racism
ugly outbreaks of racism
irrational racism
He's a racist.
racist thugs
racist attitudes/attacks/remarks
a vegetable/wine/plate/toast rack
I looked through a rack of clothes at the back of the shop.
to be racked with/by guilt
Her face was racked with pain.
Violent sobs racked her whole body.
(BrE) a racking cough
The company racked up $200 million in losses in two years.
In ten years of boxing he racked up a record 176 wins.
Stop making that terrible racket!
a protection/an extortion/a drugs, etc. racket
They located the ship by radar.
a radar screen
the radial pattern of public transport facilities
a radiant smile
The bride looked radiant.
She was radiant with health.
The sun was radiant in a clear blue sky.
the radiant heat/energy of the sun
radiantly happy
He smiled radiantly.
He radiated self-confidence and optimism.
Heat radiates from the stove.
Five roads radiate from the square.
The pain started in my stomach and radiated all over my body.
high levels/doses of radiation that damage cells
the link between exposure to radiation and childhood cancer
a radiation leak from a nuclear power station
radiation sickness
the radiations emitted by radium
ultraviolet radiation
electromagnetic radiation from power lines
a central heating system with a radiator in each room
the need for radical changes in education
demands for radical reform of the law
radical differences between the sexes
radical ideas
a radical solution to the problem
radical proposals
the radical wing of the party
radical politicians/students/writers
The new methods are radically different from the old.
Attitudes have changed radically.
political radicals
Recent events have radicalized opinion on educational matters.
The treaty was ratified by all the member states.
The interview was broadcast on radio and television.
The play was written specially for radio.
I listen to the radio on the way to work.
Did you hear the interview with him on the radio?
local/national radio
a radio programme/station
to turn the radio on/off
a car radio
He was unable to contact Blake by radio.
to keep in radio contact
radio signals/waves
to hear a gale warning on/over the ship's radio
The police officer radioed for help.
The warning was radioed to headquarters.
radio-controlled
radiotherapy
the study of radioactivity
a rise in the level of radioactivity
radiocarbon analysis
These rocks have been dated radiometrically at two billion years old.
a course of radiotherapy
a bunch of radishes
They deliver to within a 5-mile radius of the store.
What do you really think about it?
Tell me what really happened.
They are not really my aunt and uncle.
I can't believe I am really going to meet the princess.
I want to help, I really do.
Now I really must go.
I really don't mind.
He really likes you.
I really and truly am in love this time.
a really hot fire
I'm really sorry.
I don't really agree with that.
It doesn't really matter.
'Did you enjoy the book?' ' Not really.'(= 'no' or 'not very much')
Do you really expect me to believe that?
I don't really need to go, do I?
'We're going to Japan next month.' 'Oh, really?'
'She's resigned.' 'Really? Are you sure?'
Really, you could have told us before.
He was an RAF pilot.
an inflatable raft
a whole raft of new proposals
We went white-water rafting on the Colorado River.
the local rag
rag week
a ragbag of ideas
His face was dark with rage.
to be shaking/trembling/speechless with rage
Sue stormed out of the room in a rage.
He flies into a rage if you even mention the subject.
a case of trolley rage in the supermarket
He raged against the injustice of it all.
'That's unfair!' she raged.
The riots raged for three days.
The blizzard was still raging outside.
Forest fires were raging out of control.
A flu epidemic raged through Europe.
ragged children
ragged clouds
a ragged coastline
I could hear the sound of his ragged breathing.
Their performance was still very ragged.
raggedly dressed
She was breathing raggedly.
a raging appetite/thirst
raging jealousy
a raging storm
The stream had become a raging torrent.
The building was now a raging inferno.
a raging headache
His speech has provoked a raging debate.
a ragtag band of rebels
They carried out a bombing raid on enemy bases.
They were arrested during a dawn raid.
an armed bank raid
Villages along the border are regularly raided.
a raiding party (= a group of soldiers, etc. that attack a place)
Many treasures were lost when the tombs were raided in the last century.
(humorous) I caught him raiding the fridge again (= taking food from it).
armed/masked raiders
She leaned on the ship's rail and gazed out to sea.
a picture/curtain/towel rail
to travel by rail
rail travel/services/fares
a rail link/network
She railed against the injustice of it all.
iron railings
I chained my bike to the park railings.
She leaned out over the railing.
railroad tracks
This town got a lot bigger when the railroad came in the 1860s.
The bill was railroaded through the House.
The railway is still under construction.
a disused railway
Her father worked on the railways.
a railway station/worker/company
the Midland Railway
a model railway
There will be rain in all parts tomorrow.
Rain is forecast for the weekend.
Don't go out in the rain.
It's pouring with rain (= raining very hard).
heavy/torrential/driving rain
The rain poured down.
It looks like rain (= as if it is going to rain).
A light rain began to fall.
I think I felt a drop of rain.
The rains come in September.
a rain of arrows/stones
Is it raining?
It had been raining hard all night.
It hardly rained at all last summer.
It started to rain.
Bombs rained (down) on the city's streets.
Falling debris rained on us from above.
He covered his face as the blows rained down on him (= he was hit repeatedly).
The volcano erupted, raining hot ash over a wide area.
July 15 is our annual fun day (rain date July 22).
all the colours of the rainbow
There has been below average rainfall this month.
an average annual rainfall of 10 cm
the Amazon rainforest
a rainy day
the rainy season
the rainiest place in Britain
a rainproof jacket
a barrel for collecting rainwater
She raised the gun and fired.
He raised a hand in greeting.
She raised her eyes from her work.
He raised his head from the pillow.
We were forced to raise the price.
She rose from the chair.
The helicopter rose into the air.
Costs are always rising.
a rise in interest rates
Should I ask my boss for a rise?
a three per cent pay raise
his dramatic rise to power
Somehow we managed to raise her to her feet.
He raised himself up on one elbow.
to raise salaries/prices/taxes
They raised their offer to $500.
How can we raise standards in schools?
Don't tell her about the job until you know for sure—we don't want to raise her hopes (= make her hope too much).
I've never heard him even raise his voice (= speak louder because he was angry).
to raise a loan
We are raising money for charity.
He set about raising an army.
The book raises many important questions.
I'm glad you raised the subject of money.
to raise doubts in people's minds
The plans for the new development have raised angry protests from local residents.
It wasn't an easy audience but he raised a laugh with his joke.
It had been a difficult day but she managed to raise a smile.
The horses' hooves raised a cloud of dust.
They were both raised in the South.
kids raised on a diet of hamburgers
They raised her (as) a Catholic.
I was born and raised a city boy.
to raise cattle/corn
to raise a blockade/a ban/an embargo/a siege
We managed to raise him on his mobile phone.
Christians believe that God raised Jesus from the dead.
I'll raise you another hundred dollars.
3 raised to the power of 3 is 27 (= 3 × 3 × 3).
The town raised a memorial to those killed in the war.
a raised platform
the sound of raised voices
Smokers often have raised blood pressure.
consciousness raising
a raising of standards in schools
Work seems to be her sole raison d'être.
The leaves had been raked into a pile.
(figurative) She raked a comb through her hair.
First rake the soil smooth.
They raked the streets with machine-gun fire.
Searchlights raked the grounds.
She raked around in her bag for her keys.
The movie raked in more than $300 million.
She's been raking it in since she started her new job.
She had no desire to rake over the past.
raked seating
to attend/hold a rally
a peace/protest, etc. rally
a mass rally in support of the strike
the Monte Carlo rally
rally driving
After a furious late rally, they finally scored.
a rally in shares on the stock market
The cabinet rallied behind the Prime Minister.
Many national newspapers rallied to his support.
They have rallied a great deal of support for their campaign.
He never really rallied after the operation.
The champion rallied to win the second set 6–3.
The company's shares had rallied slightly by the close of trading.
The pound rallied against the dollar.
Two passengers were injured when their taxi was rammed from behind by a bus.
She rammed the key into the lock.
(figurative) The spending cuts had been rammed through Congress.
He rammed his truck into the back of the one in front.
hydraulic rams
256 megabytes of RAM
We spent the summer rambling in Ireland.
He had lost track of what he was saying and began to ramble.
What is she rambling on about now?
Climbing plants rambled over the front of the house.
to go for a ramble in the country
She went into a long ramble about the evils of television.
a rambling letter
a rambling rose
the ramblings of a madman
These changes are bound to have widespread social ramifications.
Ramps should be provided for wheelchair users.
a freeway exit ramp
a loading ramp
Gangs of youths went on the rampage in the city yesterday.
a herd of rampaging elephants
rampant inflation
Unemployment is now rampant in most of Europe.
a cattle/sheep ranch
ranch hands (= the people who work on a ranch )
a cattle rancher
cattle/sheep ranching
She learned to accept criticism without rancour.
a rancorous legal battle
to feel/get randy
the random killing of innocent people
a random sample/selection (= in which each thing has an equal chance of being chosen)
The information is processed in a random order.
(informal) He grabbed a pair of random jeans and an old red shirt.
She dodged the random items that were on the concrete floor.
Some random guy gave me a hundred bucks.
Mom, you are so random!
The humour is great because it's just so random and unhinged from reality.
The winning numbers are randomly selected by computer.
My phone seems to switch itself off randomly.
It introduced an element of randomness into the situation.
The hotel offers a wide range of facilities.
There is a full range of activities for children.
Most of the students are in the 17–20 age range.
There will be an increase in the range of 0 to 3 per cent.
It's difficult to find a house in our price range (= that we can afford).
This was outside the range of his experience.
our new range of hair products
The child was now out of her range of vision (= not near enough for her to see).
These missiles have a range of 300 miles.
the great mountain range of the Alps
a shooting range
Cook the meat on a low heat on top of the range.
to range in size/length/price from A to B
Accommodation ranges from tourist class to luxury hotels.
Estimates of the damage range between $1 million and $5 million.
She has had a number of different jobs, ranging from chef to swimming instructor.
The conversation ranged widely (= covered a lot of different topics).
The delegates ranged themselves around the table.
Spectators were ranged along the whole route of the procession.
He ranges far and wide in search of inspiration for his paintings.
Her eyes ranged the room.
The whole family seemed ranged against him.
His lecture ranged over a number of topics.
She was not used to mixing with people of high social rank.
He rose through the ranks to become managing director.
Within months she was elevated to ministerial rank.
He was soon promoted to the rank of captain.
officers of junior/senior rank
a campaign to attract more women into the military ranks
officers, and other ranks (= people who are not officers)
The colonel was stripped of his rank (= was given a lower position, especially as a punishment).
He served in the ranks for most of the war.
He rose from the ranks (= from being an ordinary soldier) to become a warrant officer.
a painter of the first rank
Britain is no longer in the front rank of world powers.
The findings are arranged in rank order according to performance.
We have a number of international players in our ranks.
At 50, he was forced to join the ranks of the unemployed.
There were serious divisions within the party's own ranks.
They watched as ranks of marching infantry passed the window.
massed ranks of spectators
The trees grew in serried ranks (= very closely together).
The tasks have been ranked in order of difficulty.
She is currently the highest ranked player in the world.
top-ranked players
Voters regularly rank education as being more important than defence.
At the height of her career she ranked second in the world.
The university is ranked number one in the country for engineering.
It certainly doesn't rank as his greatest win.
The restaurant ranks among the finest in town.
This must rank with (= be as good as) the greatest movies ever made.
(NAmE) You just don't rank (= you're not good enough).
The house was full of the rank smell of urine.
I think the whole situation's pretty rank.
an example of rank stupidity
The winning horse was a rank outsider.
the rank and file of the workforce
rank-and-file members
He has improved his ranking this season from 67th to 30th.
She has retained her No.1 world ranking.
a ranking diplomat
He was the ranking officer (= the most senior officer present at a particular time).
high-ranking/low-ranking police officers
a top-ranking player
Her comments still rankled.
His decision to sell the land still rankled with her.
The house had been ransacked by burglars.
The kidnappers demanded a ransom of £50 000 from his family.
a ransom demand/note
ransom money
They are refusing to pay ransom for her release.
The kidnapped children were all ransomed and returned home unharmed.
There was a sharp rap on the door.
a rap song/artist
a police rap sheet (= a record of the crimes sb has committed)
He denounced the criticisms as 'just one bum rap after another.'
Wolves get a bad rap, says a woman who owns three.
She was prepared to take the rap for the shoplifting, though it had been her sister's idea.
She rapped angrily on the door.
He rapped the table with his pen.
He walked through the store, rapping out orders to his staff.
Some of the teachers were rapped for poor performance.
the rapacity of landowners seeking greater profit
He was charged with rape.
a rape victim
an increase in the number of reported rapes
rapid change/expansion/growth
a rapid rise/decline in sales
The patient made a rapid recovery.
a rapid pulse/heartbeat
The guard fired four shots in rapid succession.
The disease is spreading at a rapid rate.
the rapidity of economic growth
The disease is spreading with alarming rapidity.
a rapidly growing economy
Crime figures are rising rapidly.
a UN rapid-response unit
rapid-response systems for early detection of the virus
to shoot the rapids (= to travel quickly over them in a boat)
(figurative) rapier wit (= very quick and sharp)
She understood the importance of establishing a close rapport with clients.
the UN special rapporteur on human rights
policies aimed at bringing about a rapprochement with China
There now seems little chance of rapprochement between the warring factions.
a rapt audience
She listened to the speaker with rapt attention.
Charles listened with rapture to her singing.
The children gazed at her in rapture.
rapturous applause
a rare disease/occurrence/sight
It's extremely rare for it to be this hot in April.
It is rare to find such loyalty these days.
On the rare occasions when they met he hardly even dared speak to her.
It was a rare (= very great) honour to be made a fellow of the college.
a rare book/coin/stamp
a rare breed/plant
This species is extremely rare.
the rarefied atmosphere of academic life
She is rarely seen in public nowadays.
We rarely agree on what to do.
a rarely-performed play
(formal) Rarely has a debate attracted so much media attention.
The new recruits arrived early, all dressed up and raring to go (= to start).
She is raring to get back to work after her operation.
Women are still something of a rarity in senior positions in business.
His collection of plants contains many rarities.
The value of antiques will depend on their condition and rarity.
Come here, you little rascal!
I woke up covered in a rash.
I come out in a rash (= a rash appears on my skin) if I eat chocolate.
The sun brought her out in (= caused) an itchy rash.
a heat rash (= caused by heat)
a rash of movies about life in prison
There has been a rash of burglaries in the area over the last month.
a rash young man
It would be rash to assume that everyone will agree with you on this.
Think twice before doing anything rash.
This is what happens when you make rash decisions.
She had rashly promised to lend him the money.
He bitterly regretted his rashness.
'Where have you been?' she rasped.
He rasped out some instructions.
a rasping cough/voice
The wind rasped his face.
raspberry jam
to blow a raspberry at sb
rat poison
Where I come from, you don't rat on your friends.
The government is accused of ratting on its promises to the unemployed.
Someone ratted us out to the police.
Overuse of credit cards has ratcheted up consumer debt to unacceptable levels.
Most people walk at an average rate of 5 kilometres an hour.
The number of reported crimes is increasing at an alarming rate.
Figures published today show another fall in the rate of inflation.
At the rate you work, you'll never finish!
Local businesses are closing at a/the rate of three a year.
a high/low/rising rate of unemployment
the annual crime/divorce rate
His pulse rate dropped suddenly.
a high success/failure rate
advertising/insurance/postal, etc. rates
a low/high hourly rate of pay
We offer special reduced rates for students.
a fixed-rate mortgage (= one in which the amount of money paid back each month is fixed for a particular period)
the basic rate of tax (= the lowest amount that is paid by everyone)
exchange/interest rates
rates of exchange/interest
The university is highly rated for its research.
They rated him highly as a colleague.
Voters continue to rate education high on their list of priorities.
The show was rated (as) a success by critics and audiences.
The match rated as one of their worst defeats.
I'm afraid our needs do not rate very high with this administration.
What did you think of the movie? I didn't rate it myself.
The schools were rated according to their exam results.
a top-rated programme
She is currently rated number two in the world.
The incident didn't even rate a mention in the press.
The instructions were rather complicated.
She fell and hurt her leg rather badly.
I didn't fail the exam; in fact I did rather well!
It was a rather difficult question.
It was rather a difficult question.
He looks rather like his father.
The patient has responded to the treatment rather better than expected.
He was conscious that he was talking rather too much.
I rather suspect we're making a mistake.
We were rather hoping you'd be able to do it by Friday.
She worked as a secretary, or rather, a personal assistant.
In the end he had to walk—or rather run—to the office.
The walls were not white, but rather a sort of dirty grey.
'I'm going climbing tomorrow.' 'Rather you than me!'
I think I'll have a cold drink rather than coffee.
Why didn't you ask for help, rather than trying to do it on your own?
She'd rather die than give a speech.
'Do you want to come with us?' 'No, I'd rather not.'
Would you rather walk or take the bus?
'Do you mind if I smoke?' 'Well, I'd rather you didn't.'
'How about a trip to the beach?' 'Rather!'
The poll gave a popular approval rating of 39% for the President.
Education has been given a high-priority rating by the new administration.
The show has gone up in the ratings.
The film was given a 15 rating by British censors.
The movie carries an R rating.
What is the ratio of men to women in the department?
The school has a very high teacher-student ratio.
The ratio of applications to available places currently stands at 100:1.
the weekly butter ration
We're on short rations (= allowed less than usual) until fresh supplies arrive.
Once these latest rations run out, the country will again face hunger and starvation.
As part of the diet, allow yourself a small daily ration of sugar.
I've had my ration of problems for one day—you deal with it!
Eggs were rationed during the war.
The villagers are rationed to two litres of water a day.
a rational argument/choice/decision
rational analysis/thought
There is no rational explanation for his actions.
No rational person would ever behave like that.
the rationality of his argument
to act/behave/think rationally
She argued her case calmly and rationally.
What is the rationale behind these new exams?
an attempt to rationalize his violent behaviour
Twenty workers lost their jobs when the department was rationalized.
No amount of rationalization could justify his actions.
a need for rationalization of the industry
a rationalistic position
Rats! I forgot my glasses.
a rattan chair
He gets ratty if he doesn't get enough sleep.
long ratty hair
a ratty old pair of jeans
Every time a bus went past, the windows rattled.
A convoy of trucks rattled by.
He was clearly rattled by the question.
She spent the last few years alone, rattling around the old family home.
She can rattle off the names of all the presidents of the US.
the rattle of gunfire
From the kitchen came a rattling of cups and saucers.
This book is a rattling good read.
raucous laughter
a raucous voice
a group of raucous young men
a raunchy magazine
Their stage act is a little too raunchy for television.
a raunchy old man
a country ravaged by civil war
the ravages of war
Her looks had not survived the ravages of time.
The critics raved about his performance in 'Hamlet'.
She was shouting and raving at them.
He wandered the streets raving at passers-by.
an all-night rave
(figurative) He was trying to ravel out the complicated series of events that had led to this situation.
raven-haired
He says the media are ravening wolves.
What's for lunch? I'm absolutely ravenous.
a ravenous appetite
The man's a raving lunatic.
She's no raving beauty.
He dismissed her words as the ravings of a hysterical woman.
a ravishing blonde
ravishingly beautiful
raw meat
These fish are often eaten raw.
raw sugar
This information is only raw data and will need further analysis.
songs full of raw emotion
He started with nothing but raw talent and determination.
There were raw patches on her feet where the shoes had rubbed.
a raw beginner
raw recruits (= for example, in the army)
a raw north wind
It had been a wet raw winter.
a raw portrayal of working-class life
(NAmE) raw language (= containing many sexual details)
We have had problems with the supply of raw materials to the factory.
These trees provide the raw material for high-quality paper.
(figurative) The writer uses her childhood as raw material for this novel.
the sun's rays
ultraviolet rays
The windows were shining in the reflected rays of the setting sun.
There was just one small ray of hope.
The village was razed to the ground.
an electric razor
a cut-throat/safety/disposable razor
razor-sharp teeth
a razor-sharp mind
The documentary focuses on the razzmatazz of an American political campaign.
12 Ashton Rd
Re your letter of 1 September…
Re: travel expenses
an RE teacher
reapply
reincarnation
reassuring
Their shouts re-echoed through the darkness.
Her words re-echoed in his mind.
He has constantly re-echoed the main theme of his acceptance speech: 'We want to be proud again!'.
She was re-elected to parliament.
The committee voted to re-elect him (as) chairman.
(BrE) to stand for re-election
(NAmE) to run for re-election
The cancer may re-emerge years later.
Members of the English Civil War Society will re-enact the battle.
She feared she would not be granted re-entry into Britain.
a re-entry programme for nurses (= for nurses returning to work after a long time doing sth else)
All the evidence needs to be re-examined.
The band is re-forming after 23 years.
The party has recently been re-formed.
They didn't reach the border until after dark.
I hope this letter reaches you.
The rumours eventually reached the President.
The conflict has now reached a new level of intensity.
Daytime temperatures can reach 40°C.
He first reached the finals in 2014.
The negotiations have reached deadlock.
to reach a conclusion/decision/verdict/compromise
Politicians again failed to reach an agreement.
She reached inside her bag for a pen.
He reached out his hand to touch her.
'Grab the end of the rope.' 'I can't reach that far!'
Can you reach the light switch from where you're sitting?
Can you reach that box down for me?
Can you reach me down that box?
The carpet only reached halfway across the room.
Is the cable long enough to reach the socket?
Do you know where I can reach him?
Through television and radio we are able to reach a wider audience.
The church needs to find new ways of reaching out to young people.
As a boxer, his long reach gives him a significant advantage.
The shot was well beyond the reach of the goalkeeper.
Cleaning fluids should be kept out of the reach of children.
He lashed out angrily, hitting anyone within his reach.
Use shears with a long reach for cutting high hedges.
Such matters are beyond the reach of the law.
Victory is now out of her reach.
The basic model is priced well within the reach of most people.
The company has now overtaken IBM in terms of size and reach.
the upper/lower reaches of the Nile (= the part that is furthest from/nearest to the sea)
the outer reaches of space
(figurative) an exploration of the deepest reaches of the human mind
There are still few women in the upper reaches of the civil service.
Many clubs in the lower reaches of the league are in financial difficulty.
The farm is only reachable by car.
She could not recall his name.
If I recall correctly, he lives in Luton.
I can't recall meeting her before.
He recalled that she always came home late on Wednesdays.
Can you recall exactly what happened?
'It was on a Thursday in March,' he recalled.
The poem recalls Eliot's 'The Waste Land'.
Both countries recalled their ambassadors.
He was recalled to military duty.
They have both been recalled to the Welsh squad (= selected as members of the team after a time when they were not selected).
The company has recalled all the faulty hairdryers.
She has amazing powers of recall.
to have instant recall (= to be able to remember sth immediately)
to have total recall (= to be able to remember all the details of sth)
Thomas's recall to the Welsh team
I'll need to reacquaint myself with this program—it's a long time since I've used it.
Local residents have reacted angrily to the news.
I nudged her but she didn't react.
You never know how he is going to react.
The market reacted by falling a further two points.
People can react badly to certain food additives.
Iron reacts with water and air to produce rust.
He reacted strongly against the artistic conventions of his time.
What was his reaction to the news?
My immediate reaction was one of shock.
A spokesman said the changes were not in reaction to the company's recent losses.
There has been a mixed reaction to her appointment as director.
The decision provoked an angry reaction from local residents.
I tried shaking him but there was no reaction.
The return to traditional family values is a reaction against the permissiveness of recent decades.
to have an allergic reaction to a drug
a skilled driver with quick reactions
a chemical/nuclear reaction
The forces of reaction made change difficult.
a reactionary government
The police presented a reactive rather than preventive strategy against crime.
highly reactive substances
Oxygen has high reactivity.
She's still learning to read.
Some children can read and write before they go to school.
I can't read your writing.
Can you read music?
I'm trying to read the map.
I'm going to go to bed and read.
He liked reading to his grandchildren.
to read a book/a magazine/the newspaper
Have you read any Steinbeck (= novels by him)?
He read the poem aloud.
Go on—read it to us.
She read us a story.
I read about the accident in the local paper.
I read that he had resigned.
Don't believe everything you read in the papers.
How do you read the present situation?
Silence must not always be read as consent.
The sign read 'No admittance'.
I've changed the last paragraph. It now reads as follows…
Generally, the article reads very well.
The poem reads like (= sounds as if it is) a translation.
What does the thermometer read?
A man came to read the gas meter.
'Do you read me?' 'I'm reading you loud and clear.'
For 'madam' in line 3 read 'madman'.
I read English at Oxford.
She's reading for a law degree.
My computer can't read the CD-ROM you sent.
to read a file into a computer
Can we take it as read that you want the job?
Don't read too much into what she says.
That's the story so far. Now read on…
I'll need to read up on the case before the meeting.
I was having a quiet read when the phone rang.
His thrillers are always a gripping read.
She's very widely read in law.
an avid reader of science fiction
a fast/slow reader
The reader is left to draw his or her own conclusions.
readers' letters
Are you a 'Times' reader?
a series of graded English readers
She is Reader in Music at Edinburgh.
a readership of around 10 000
In its new format, the magazine hopes to attract a much wider readership.
Are you nearly ready?
'Shall we go?' 'I'm ready when you are!'
I'm just getting the kids ready for school.
I was twenty years old and ready for anything.
Right, we're ready to go.
Volunteers were ready and waiting to pack the food in boxes.
Come on, dinner's ready!
The new building should be ready by 2020.
Can you help me get everything ready for the party?
The contract will be ready to sign in two weeks.
All the relevant records are easily available ready to hand.
a ready supply of wood
a ready source of income
I was very angry and ready for a fight.
She's always ready with advice.
He's always ready to help his friends.
Don't be so ready to believe the worst about people.
She looked ready to collapse at any minute.
Right, I'm ready for bed.
After the long walk, we were all ready for a drink.
She has great charm and a ready wit.
Western companies were readying themselves for the challenge from Eastern markets.
ready-cooked meals
The concrete was ready mixed.
All ingredients are readily available from your local store.
Most people readily accept the need for laws.
Everyone has doubts about their readiness for parenthood.
Over half the people interviewed expressed their readiness to die for their country.
My hobbies include reading and painting.
He needs more help with his reading.
Are you any good at map reading?
reading glasses (= worn when reading)
a reading lamp/light (= one that can be moved to shine light onto sth that you are reading)
A closer (= more detailed) reading of the text reveals just how desperate he was feeling.
reading matter/material
a series of reading books for children
a reading list (= a list of books, etc. that students are expected to read for a particular subject)
further reading (= at the end of a book, a list of other books that give more information about the same subject)
The report makes for interesting reading (= it is interesting to read)
The article is not exactly light reading (= it is not easy to read).
a literal reading of the text
My own reading of events is less optimistic.
Meter readings are taken every three months.
a poetry reading
The evening ended with a reading from her latest novel.
The reading today is from the Book of Daniel.
a 30-year-old man with a reading age of eight
Children are highly adaptable—they just need time to readjust.
Once again he had to readjust to living alone.
She got out of the car and readjusted her dress.
He has made a number of readjustments to his technique.
a painful period of readjustment
He was readmitted only a week after being discharged.
ready-made pastry
a ready-made suit
When he married her he also took on a ready-made family.
ready-mixed concrete
Their policies would wreak havoc on the economy.
He swore to wreak vengeance on those who had betrayed him.
It wasn't a ghost; it was a real person.
pictures of animals, both real and mythological
In the movies guns kill people instantly, but it's not like that in real life.
Politicians seem to be out of touch with the real world.
The growth of violent crime is a very real problem.
There's no real possibility of them changing their minds.
We have a real chance of success.
Are those real flowers?
real leather
Tell me the real reason.
Bono's real name is Paul Hewson.
See the real Africa on one of our walking safaris.
I couldn't resist the opportunity to meet a real live celebrity.
She never had any real friends at school.
his first real kiss
I had no real interest in politics.
He was making a real effort to be nice to her.
She has not shown any real regret for what she did.
He looks a real idiot.
This accident could have produced a real tragedy.
Her next play was a real contrast.
Real wage costs have risen by 10% in the past year.
This represents a reduction of 5% in real terms.
That tastes real good.
He's a real nice guy.
I'm real sorry.
My father sold real estate.
to work in real estate
A company's home page is its most valuable real estate.
You can increase screen real estate by moving the taskbar to the right of the screen.
To make the training realistic the simulation operates in real time.
real-time missile guidance systems
a novel based on real-life events
a real-life Romeo and Juliet
Teachers need to prepare their students to deal with real-world situations outside the classroom.
to release a prisoner/hostage
Firefighters took two hours to release the driver from the wreckage.
He refused to release her arm.
10 000 balloons were released at the ceremony.
Intense heat is released in the reaction.
She burst into tears, releasing all her pent-up emotions.
The club is releasing some of its older players.
The new law released employers from their obligation to recognize unions.
to release the clutch/handbrake/switch, etc.
You need to release the tension in these shoulder muscles.
Police have released no further details about the accident.
to release a movie/book/CD
new products released onto the market
The new building programme will go ahead as soon as the government releases the funds.
The government has been working to secure the release of the hostages.
She can expect an early release from prison.
The new software is planned for release in April.
The movie goes on general release (= will be widely shown in cinemas/movie theaters) next week.
the latest new releases
the release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere
to monitor radiation releases
a sense of release after the exam
I think her death was a merciful release.
The road was realigned to improve visibility.
The company has been forced to realign its operations in the area.
The rebel MPs have realigned themselves with the opposition party.
the realignment of personal goals
political realignments
the sudden realization of what she had done
There is a growing realization that changes must be made.
It was the realization of his greatest ambition.
I didn't realize (that) you were so unhappy.
The moment I saw her, I realized something was wrong.
I don't think you realize how important this is to her.
I hope you realize the seriousness of this crime.
Only later did she realize her mistake.
The situation was more complicated than they had at first realized.
They managed to leave without any of us realizing.
There was a cheer when it was realized that everyone was safely back.
She never realized her ambition of becoming a professional singer.
We try to help all students realize their full potential (= be as successful as they are able to be).
His worst fears were realized when he saw that the door had been forced open.
The paintings realized $2 million at auction.
The stage designs have been beautifully realized.
There was a new mood of realism among the leaders at the peace talks.
I'm a realist—I know you can't change people overnight.
a realistic assessment
We have to be realistic about our chances of winning.
It is not realistic to expect people to spend so much money.
We must set realistic goals.
a realistic target
to pay a realistic salary
a realistic drawing
We try to make these training courses as realistic as possible.
Realistically, there is little prospect of a ceasefire.
How many can you realistically hope to sell?
Kate spoke realistically about the task ahead.
a fireplace with realistically glowing coals
She refuses to face reality.
You're out of touch with reality.
The reality is that there is not enough money to pay for this project.
the harsh realities of life
This decision reflects the realities of the political situation.
Will time travel ever become a reality?
a reality TV star
the reality show 'Big Brother'
realizable objectives
realizable assets
in the realm of literature
At the end of the speech he seemed to be moving into the realms of fantasy.
the defence of the realm
Much of the crime in this area is related to drug abuse.
These problems are closely related.
a related issue/question
a stress-related illness
Are you related to Margaret?
related languages
The llama is related to the camel.
I found it difficult to relate the two ideas in my mind.
In the future, pay increases will be related to productivity.
She relates her childhood experiences in the first chapters.
He related the facts of the case to journalists.
She related how he had run away from home as a boy.
The story relates that an angel appeared and told him to sing.
We shall discuss the problem as it relates to our specific case.
The second paragraph relates to the situation in Scotland.
Many adults can't relate to children.
Our product needs an image that people can relate to.
the relative merits of the two plans
the position of the sun relative to the earth
They now live in relative comfort (= compared with how they lived before).
Given the failure of the previous plan, this turned out to be a relative success.
It's all relative though, isn't it? We never had any money when I was a kid and $500 was a fortune to us.
the facts relative to the case
In 'the man who came', 'who' is a relative pronoun and 'who came' is a relative clause.
a close/distant relative
her friends and relatives
The ibex is a distant relative of the mountain goat.
Get the top realtones from the best artists delivered instantly to your mobile.
She wrote reams in the exam.
We got reamed on that deal.
to remain silent/standing/seated/motionless
Train fares are likely to remain unchanged.
It remains true that sport is about competing well, not winning.
In spite of their quarrel, they remain the best of friends.
He will remain (as) manager of the club until the end of his contract.
Very little of the house remained after the fire.
There were only ten minutes remaining.
Much remains to be done.
It remains to be seen (= it will only be known later) whether you are right.
There remained one significant problem.
Questions remain about the president's honesty.
I feel sorry for her, but the fact remains (that) she lied to us.
They remained in Mexico until June.
The plane remained on the ground.
She left, but I remained behind.
They are now reaping the rewards of all their hard work.
She went upstairs and did not reappear until morning.
Sunblock should be reapplied every hour.
Previous applicants for the post need not reapply.
Students are taught a number of skills that can be reapplied throughout their studies.
After the trial he was reappointed (as) treasurer.
A trailer was attached to the rear of the truck.
There are toilets at both front and rear of the plane.
A high gate blocks the only entrance to the rear.
a kick in the rear
front and rear windows
the rear entrance of the building
She reared a family of five on her own.
to rear cattle
The horse reared, throwing its rider.
The great bulk of the building reared up against the night sky.
I was the son of sailors and reared on stories of the sea.
Rear Admiral Baines
They have been fighting a rearguard action for two years to stop their house being demolished.
livestock rearing
The country was forbidden to rearm under the terms of the treaty.
Rebel troops were being rearmed.
the rearmost section of the aircraft
We've rearranged the furniture in the bedroom.
She rearranged herself in another pose.
Can we rearrange the meeting for next Tuesday at 2?
rearward seats
medical/historical/scientific, etc. research
to do/conduct/undertake research
He has carried out extensive research into renewable energy sources.
Recent research on deaf children has produced some interesting findings about their speech.
What have their researches shown?
a research project/grant/student
I've done some research to find out the cheapest way of travelling there.
They're researching into ways of improving people's diet.
to research a problem/topic/market
She's in New York researching her new book (= finding facts and information to put in it).
We have to research how the product will actually be used.
I'd like to know the reason why you're so late.
Give me one good reason why I should help you.
We aren't going for the simple reason that we can't afford it.
She gave no reasons for her decision.
I have no particular reason for doubting him.
For some reason (= one that I don't know or don't understand) we all have to come in early tomorrow.
The man attacked me for no apparent reason.
She resigned for personal reasons.
For reasons of security the door is always kept locked.
He wants to keep them all in his office for reasons best known to himself.
people who, for whatever reason, are unable to support themselves
'Why do you want to know?' ' No reason.' (= I do not want to say why.)
'Why did she do that?' 'She must have her reasons ' (= secret reasons which she does not want to tell).
(formal) He was excused by reason of (= because of) his age.
They have reason to believe that he is lying.
We have every reason (= have very good reasons) to feel optimistic.
There is no reason why we should agree to this.
This result gives us all the more reason for optimism.
She complained, with reason (= rightly), that she had been underpaid.
Only human beings are capable of reason (= of thinking in a logical way, etc.).
to lose your reason (= become mentally ill)
I can't get her to listen to reason.
Why can't they see reason?
to be open to reason (= to be willing to accept sensible advice)
He's looking for a job and he's willing to do anything within reason.
She reasoned that she must have left her bag on the train.
They couldn't fire him, he reasoned. He was the only one who knew how the system worked.
the human ability to reason
I tried to reason with him, but he wouldn't listen.
It is reasonable to assume that he knew beforehand that this would happen.
Be reasonable! We can't work late every night.
Any reasonable person would have done exactly as you did.
The prosecution has to prove beyond reasonable doubt that he is guilty of murder.
He made us a reasonable offer for the car.
You must submit your claim within a reasonable time.
We sell good quality food at reasonable prices.
a reasonable standard of living
The hotel was reasonable, I suppose (= but not excellent).
The instructions are reasonably straightforward.
She seems reasonably happy in her new job.
We tried to discuss the matter calmly and reasonably.
He couldn't reasonably be expected to pay back the loan all at once.
The apartments are reasonably priced (= not too expensive).
What is the reasoning behind this decision?
This line of reasoning is faulty.
We had to take the table apart and reassemble it upstairs.
The class reassembled after lunch.
She found it necessary to reassert her position.
He thought about giving up his job, but then common sense reasserted itself.
He reasserted that all parties should be involved in the talks.
Traditional values have been reasserted.
After his election defeat he was reassigned to the diplomatic service.
The case was reassigned to a different court.
to give/provide/offer reassurance
We have been given reassurances that the water is safe to drink.
They tried to reassure her, but she still felt anxious.
The doctor reassured him that there was nothing seriously wrong.
a reassuring smile
It's reassuring (to know) that we've got the money if necessary.
The place reawakened childhood memories.
a tax rebate
Buyers are offered a cash rebate.
rebel forces
Armed rebels advanced towards the capital.
I've always been the rebel of the family.
He later rebelled against his strict religious upbringing.
Most teenagers find something to rebel against.
The north of the country rose in rebellion against the government.
The army put down the rebellion.
(a) back-bench rebellion
teenage rebellion
rebellious teenagers
He has always had a rebellious streak.
rebellious cities/factions
'I don't care!' she said rebelliously.
the seasonal cycle of death and rebirth
If you were reborn as an animal, which animal would you be?
a reborn version of social democracy
reborn evangelical Christians
The ball rebounded from the goalpost and Podolski headed it in.
In the 1990s the Labour Party rebranded itself as New Labour.
a rebranding exercise
a £5 million rebranding
Her offer of help was met with a sharp rebuff.
They rebuffed her request for help.
After the earthquake, the people set about rebuilding their homes.
He rebuilt the engine using parts from cars that had been scrapped.
When she lost her job, she had to rebuild her life completely.
attempts to rebuild the shattered post-war economy
The company was publicly rebuked for having neglected safety procedures.
He was silenced by her stinging rebuke.
The accusations met with a firm rebuttal.
Let me just recap on what we've decided so far.
To recapitulate briefly, the three main points are these…
Government troops soon recaptured the island.
He was trying to recapture the happiness of his youth.
the recapture of towns occupied by the rebels
She recast her lecture as a radio talk.
to do a quick recce of an area
a recent development/discovery/event
his most recent visit to Poland
There have been many changes in recent years.
Can you recommend a good hotel?
I recommend the book to all my students.
She was recommended for the post by a colleague.
The hotel's new restaurant comes highly recommended (= a lot of people have praised it).
The report recommended a 10% pay increase.
It is dangerous to exceed the recommended dose.
I recommend (that) he see a lawyer.
(BrE also ) I recommend (that) he should see a lawyer.
It is strongly recommended that the machines should be checked every year.
He recommended reading the book before seeing the movie.
Can you recommend how much we should charge?
What would/do you recommend?
What do you think would be best?
Which of the options do you favour/prefer?
I can recommend the steak today.
My favourite is the Corner Cafe.
I'd recommend waiting a few months.
I suggest you have another look at the house before you make a decision.
If it were up to me/If you ask me/If it were my decision, I'd go for the cheaper one.
This system has much to recommend it.
This theme recurs several times throughout the book.
a recurring illness/problem/nightmare, etc.
The sound of the truck receded into the distance.
She watched his receding figure.
The prospect of bankruptcy has now receded (= it is less likely).
The pain was receding slightly.
a middle-aged man with receding hair/a receding hairline
Can I have a receipt, please?
to make out (= write) a receipt
to acknowledge receipt of a letter
The goods will be dispatched on receipt of an order form.
Are you in receipt of any state benefits?
net/gross receipts
accounts receivable
to receive a letter/present/phone call
to receive information/payment/thanks
He received an award for bravery from the police service.
We received a warm welcome from our hosts.
Emergency cases will receive professional attention immediately.
to receive severe injuries
The play was well received by the critics.
The statistics were received with concern.
He was received as an honoured guest at the White House.
Three young people were received into the Church at Easter.
to receive programmes via satellite
I'm receiving you loud and clear.
She won the toss and chose to receive.
The received wisdom is that they cannot win.
to pick up/lift/put down/replace the receiver
a satellite receiver
to call in the receivers
Molly's more of a giver than a receiver.
We received a letter from him recently.
Until recently they were living in York.
I haven't seen them recently (= it is some time since I saw them).
Have you used it recently (= in the recent past)?
recipients of awards
a recipe for chicken soup
vegetarian recipes
a recipe book
His plans are a recipe for disaster.
What's her recipe for success?
(figurative) The seas have been used as a receptacle for a range of industrial toxins.
the reception area
We arranged to meet in reception at 6.30.
You can leave a message with reception.
(NAmE, BrE) the reception desk
a wedding reception
Her latest album has met with a mixed reception from fans.
Delegates gave him a warm reception as he called for more spending on education.
good/bad reception
There was very poor reception on my phone.
the reception of refugees from the war zone
The museum is building a new reception centre for visitors.
a reception centre for refugees
She was always receptive to new ideas.
He gave an impressive speech to a receptive audience.
receptivity to change
The judge called a short recess.
a recess for books
He stared into the dark recesses of the room.
(figurative) The doubt was still there, in the deep recesses of her mind.
The hearing was recessed for the weekend.
recessed shelves
the impact of the current recession on manufacturing
The economy is in deep recession.
policies to pull the country out of recession
the gradual recession of the floodwater
He plugged his razor in to recharge it.
The drill takes about three hours to recharge.
We needed the break in order to recharge.
rechargeable batteries
He returned to Britain in 1939, having resided abroad for many years.
The source of the problem resides in the fact that the currency is too strong.
The ultimate authority resides with the board of directors.
a resident of the United States
There were confrontations between local residents and the police.
The hotel restaurant is open to non-residents.
the town's resident population (= not tourists or visitors)
to be resident abroad/in the US
Tom's our resident expert (= our own expert) on foreign movies.
The two colleges have a reciprocal arrangement whereby students from one college can attend classes at the other.
Her passion for him was not reciprocated.
He smiled but his smile was not reciprocated.
I wasn't sure whether to laugh or to reciprocate with a remark of my own.
a reciprocating action
to give a piano recital
She continued her recitation of the week's events.
Each child had to recite a poem to the class.
They recited all their grievances to me.
She could recite a list of all the kings and queens.
He showed a reckless disregard for his own safety.
She was a good rider, but reckless.
He had always been reckless with money.
to cause death by reckless driving
He admitted driving recklessly.
He'll be famous one day. What do you reckon (= do you agree)?
It's worth a lot of money, I reckon.
'They'll never find out.' ' You reckon? ' (= I think you may be wrong about that)
Children are reckoned to be more sophisticated nowadays.
It was generally reckoned a success.
We reckon to finish by ten.
The age of the earth is reckoned at about 4 600 million years.
They reckon (that) their profits are down by at least 20%.
The journey was reckoned to take about two hours.
They hadn't reckoned on a rebellion.
We'd reckoned on having good weather.
He reckoned up the cost of everything in his mind.
They were already a political force to be reckoned with.
I didn't reckon with getting caught up in so much traffic.
They had reckoned without the determination of the opposition.
By my reckoning you still owe me £5.
In the final reckoning truth is rewarded.
Officials concerned with environmental policy predict that a day of reckoning will come.
You'll have to go to the police station to reclaim your wallet.
The team reclaimed the title from their rivals.
The site for the airport will be reclaimed from the swamp.
reclaimed marshland
land reclamation
The drug is to be reclassified after trials showed it to be more harmful than previously thought.
She was reclining on a sofa.
a reclining figure (= for example in a painting)
a reclining chair
to lead the life of a recluse
a reclusive millionaire
Do you recognize this tune?
I recognized her by her red hair.
They recognized the need to take the problem seriously.
Drugs were not recognized as a problem then.
Nobody recognized how urgent the situation was.
We recognized that the task was not straightforward.
It was recognized that this solution could only be temporary.
Drugs were not recognized to be a problem then.
recognized qualifications
The UK has refused to recognize the new regime.
He is recognized to be their natural leader.
The book is now recognized as a classic.
She's a recognized authority on the subject.
His services to the state were recognized with the award of a knighthood.
He glanced briefly towards her but there was no sign of recognition.
the automatic recognition of handwriting and printed text by computer
a growing recognition that older people have potential too
There is a general recognition of the urgent need for reform.
to seek international/official/formal recognition as a sovereign state
She gained only minimal recognition for her work.
He received the award in recognition of his success over the past year.
The town has changed beyond recognition since I was last here.
The building was easily recognizable as a prison.
After so many years she was still instantly recognizable.
She recoiled from his touch.
He recoiled in horror at the sight of the corpse.
She recoiled from the idea of betraying her own brother.
She could no longer recollect the details of the letter.
As far as I can recollect, she wasn't there on that occasion.
I don't recollect what he said.
I recollect that we were all gathered in the kitchen.
I recollect him/his saying that it was dangerous.
'It was just before the war,' she recollected.
I have no recollection of meeting her before.
My recollection of events differs from his.
To the best of my recollection (= if I remember correctly) I was not present at that meeting.
to have a clear/vivid/dim/vague recollection of sth
Work on the bridge will recommence next month.
The two countries agreed to recommence talks the following week.
to accept/reject a recommendation
The committee made recommendations to the board on teachers' pay and conditions.
I had the operation on the recommendation of my doctor.
We chose the hotel on their recommendation (= because they recommended it).
It's best to find a builder through personal recommendation.
Here's a list of my top CD recommendations.
There must be adequate recompense for workers who lose their jobs.
I received $1 000 in recompense for loss of earnings.
There was no attempt to recompense the miners for the loss of their jobs.
to make an aerial reconnaissance of the island
Time spent on reconnaissance is seldom wasted.
a reconnaissance aircraft/mission/satellite
Their change of policy brought about a reconciliation with Britain.
the reconciliation between environment and development
an attempt to reconcile the need for industrial development with concern for the environment
It was hard to reconcile his career ambitions with the needs of his children.
The pair were reconciled after Jackson made a public apology.
He has recently been reconciled with his wife.
He could not reconcile himself to the prospect of losing her.
You may need to reconfigure the firewall if you add a new machine to your network.
You have to reconfirm your flight 24 hours before travelling.
I replaced the taps and reconnected the water supply.
Once you have removed the virus it is safe to reconnect to the Internet.
to reconsider your decision/position
Recent information may persuade the board to reconsider.
The group reconstituted itself as a political party.
They have tried to reconstruct the settlement as it would have been in Iron Age times.
Investigators are trying to reconstruct the circumstances of the crash.
the post-war reconstruction of Germany
a reconstruction period
the reconstruction of the sea walls
The doorway is a 19th century reconstruction of Norman work.
Last night police staged a reconstruction of the incident.
reconstructive surgery
You should keep a record of your expenses.
medical/dental records
Last summer was the wettest on record.
It was the worst flood since records began.
to play a record
a record collection
a record company (= one which produces and sells records)
During her career Billie Holiday made over 100 records.
His new record is available on CD or as a download.
She holds the world record for the 100 metres.
to break the record (= to achieve a better result than there has ever been before)
to set a new record
There was a record number of candidates for the post.
I got to work in record time.
record profits
Unemployment has reached a record high (= the highest level ever).
The report criticizes the government's record on housing.
The airline has a good safety record.
He has an impressive record of achievement.
Does he have a record?
Her childhood is recorded in the diaries of those years.
You should record all your expenses during your trip.
His job is to record how politicians vote on major issues.
She recorded in her diary that they crossed the Equator on 15 June.
It is recorded that, by the year 630, four hundred monks were attached to the monastery.
Did you remember to record that programme for me?
a recorded concert
Tell me when the tape starts recording.
He recorded the class rehearsing before the performance.
The band is back in the US recording their new album.
The coroner recorded a verdict of accidental death.
The thermometer recorded a temperature of 40°C.
a record-breaking jump
I'd like to send this (by) recorded delivery.
a tape/cassette/video/DVD recorder
a video recording of the wedding
during the recording of the show
recording equipment
a recording studio
the recording industry (= the industry that records and sells music)
the recording of financial transactions
She was asked to recount the details of the conversation to the court.
They recounted what had happened during those years.
'It was before the war,' he recounted.
The defeated candidate demanded a recount.
We hope to recoup our initial investment in the first year.
He's still recuperating from his operation.
He hoped to recuperate at least some of his losses.
It was a period of rest and recuperation.
Your only recourse is legal action.
She made a complete recovery without recourse to surgery.
The government, when necessary, has recourse to the armed forces.
He's still recovering from his operation.
It can take many years to recover from the death of a loved one.
The economy is at last beginning to recover.
He is unlikely to ever recover his legal costs.
The police eventually recovered the stolen paintings.
Six bodies were recovered from the wreckage.
The team recovered its lead in the second half.
It took her a few minutes to recover consciousness.
to recover your sight
She seemed upset but quickly recovered herself.
She is now fully recovered from her injuries.
Travel expenses will be recoverable from the company.
recoverable oil reserves
My father has made a full recovery from the operation.
to make a remarkable/quick/speedy/slow, etc. recovery
She is on the road to (= making progress towards) recovery.
The government is forecasting an economic recovery.
a recovery in consumer spending
The economy is showing signs of recovery.
There is a reward for information leading to the recovery of the missing diamonds.
These pets require a lot of care and attention.
This condition requires urgent treatment.
Do you require anything else?(= in a shop/store, for example)
True marriage requires us to show trust and loyalty.
The situation required that he be present.
(BrE also ) The situation required that he should be present.
Lentils do not require soaking before cooking.
The wearing of seat belts is required by law.
'Hamlet' is required reading (= must be read) for this course.
Several students failed to reach the required standard.
What exactly is required of a receptionist (= what are they expected to do)?
All candidates will be required to take a short test.
We require that you comply with the following rules:…
recreational activities/facilities
These areas are set aside for public recreational use.
The movie recreates the glamour of 1940s Hollywood.
The writer attempts a recreation of the sights and sounds of his childhood.
the need to improve facilities for leisure and recreation
the increasing use of land for recreation
His recreations include golf, football and shooting.
bitter recriminations
We spent the rest of the evening in mutual recrimination.
The police are trying to recruit more officers from ethnic minorities.
They recruited several new members to the club.
He's responsible for recruiting at all levels.
We were recruited to help peel the vegetables.
to recruit a task force
the recruitment of new members
a recruitment drive
the training of new recruits
He spoke of us scornfully as raw recruits (= people without training or experience).
attempts to attract new recruits to the nursing profession
to rectify a fault
We must take steps to rectify the situation.
The damage will be easily rectifiable.
rectilinear motion
rectilinear forms
attempts to prevent a recurrence of the problem
recurrent infections
Poverty is a recurrent theme in her novels.
The recurring decimal 3.999… is also described as 3.9 recurring.
Denmark recycles nearly 85% of its paper.
He recycled all his old jokes.
the recycling of glass
a recycling plant
Following the bomb blast, local hospitals have been put on red alert.
I didn't expect to be given the red carpet treatment!
I didn't get a red cent for all my work.
to go through a red light (= not stop at one)
The issue of sovereignty is a red line that cannot be crossed.
red-blooded young males
red-brick cottages
We took the red-eye to Boston.
Red-hot coals glowed in the fire.
her red-hot anger
a red-hot issue
The race was won by the red-hot favourite.
All sensitive personal information has been redacted from the public documents.
redcurrant jelly
a redcurrant bush
The sky was reddening.
He could feel his face reddening with embarrassment.
He stared at her and she reddened.
We've just redecorated.
The house has been fully redecorated.
The excellent acting wasn't enough to redeem a weak plot.
The only redeeming feature of the job (= good thing about it) is the salary.
He has a chance to redeem himself after last week's mistakes.
Jesus Christ came to redeem us from sin.
to redeem a loan/mortgage
This voucher can be redeemed at any of our branches.
He was able to redeem his watch from the pawnshop.
These vouchers are redeemable against any future purchase.
The new constitution redefined the powers of the president.
We need to redefine what we mean by democracy.
the redemption of the world from sin
the redemptive power of love
Our troops are to be redeployed elsewhere.
Most of the employees will be redeployed to other parts of the company.
the redeployment of staff/resources
The city has plans to redevelop the site.
inner-city redevelopment
a red-headed girl
She is an object of ridicule in the tabloid newspapers.
to hold sb up to ridicule (= make fun of sb publicly)
I look ridiculous in this hat.
Don't be ridiculous! You can't pay £50 for a T-shirt!
The meal was ridiculously expensive.
Resources are being redirected to this important new project.
Enquiries on this matter are being redirected to the press office.
Make sure you get your mail redirected to your new address.
a sudden redirection of economic policy
the redirection of mail
Spammers are starting to use automatic redirects.
Wealth needs to be redistributed from the rich to the poor.
the redistribution of wealth
A whole day's work had to be redone.
We've just redone the bathroom (= decorated it again).
an atmosphere redolent of the sea and ships
a kitchen redolent with the smell of baking
The leading banks are expected to redouble their efforts to keep the value of the dollar down.
redoubled enthusiasm
Their defeat redounds to the glory of those whom they attacked.
After the war the map of Europe was redrawn.
to redraw the boundaries between male and female roles in the home
to redress an injustice
to seek legal redress for unfair dismissal
to have little prospect of redress
Reduce speed now (= on a sign).
Giving up smoking reduces the risk of heart disease.
Costs have been reduced by 20% over the past year.
The number of employees was reduced from 40 to 25.
The skirt was reduced to £10 in the sale.
a reducing plan
a beautiful building reduced to rubble
She was reduced to tears by their criticisms.
They were reduced to begging in the streets.
We can reduce the problem to two main issues.
The problem is not reducible to one of money.
a 33% reduction in the number of hospital beds available
There has been some reduction in unemployment.
a slight/significant/substantial/drastic reduction in costs
There are reductions for children sharing a room with two adults.
Thousands of factory workers are facing redundancy.
to accept/take voluntary redundancy (= to offer to leave your job)
the threat of compulsory redundancies
redundancy payments
Natural language is characterized by redundancy (= words are used that are not really necessary for sb to understand the meaning).
to be made redundant from your job
redundant employees
The picture has too much redundant detail.
These cells are able to reduplicate themselves.
Reduplicative expressions like 'mishmash' and 'nitty-gritty' illustrate the playful nature of English.
giant redwoods
reed beds (= where they grow)
reedy river banks
a coral reef
His breath reeked of tobacco.
Her denials reeked of hypocrisy.
a reel on a fishing rod
reels of magnetic tape
a new reel of film
The hero was killed in the final reel (= in the final part of the film/movie).
I punched him on the chin, sending him reeling backwards.
I was still reeling from the shock.
When he opened his eyes, the room was reeling.
I slowly reeled the fish in.
She immediately reeled off several names.
The game's not over till the ref blows the whistle.
The game was badly reffed.
our ref.: 3498
The victims were not referred to by name.
Her mother never referred to him again.
You know who I'm referring to.
She always referred to Ben as 'that nice man'.
I promised not to refer to the matter again.
The star refers to items which are intended for the advanced learner.
The term 'Arts' usually refers to humanities and social sciences.
This paragraph refers to the events of last year.
You may refer to your notes if you want.
to refer to a dictionary
My doctor referred me to a specialist.
The case was referred to the Court of Appeal.
(formal) May I refer you to my letter of 14 May?
These symptoms may be referable to virus infection rather than parasites.
illnesses requiring referral to hospitals
to make a referral
He was sent off for arguing with the referee.
to act as a referee between the parties involved
a refereeing decision
Who refereed the final?
The book is full of references to growing up in India.
She made no reference to her illness but only to her future plans.
the President's passing reference to (= brief mention of) the end of the war
Keep the list of numbers near the phone for easy reference.
I wrote down the name of the hotel for future reference (= because it might be useful in the future).
The library contains many popular works of reference (= reference books).
The emergency nurse can treat minor injuries without reference to a doctor.
The map reference is Y4.
Please quote your reference number when making an enquiry.
We will take up references after the interview.
My previous boss will act as a reference for me.
There is a list of references at the end of each chapter.
Each chapter is referenced, citing literature up to 2008.
Switzerland decided to hold a referendum on joining the EU.
The changes were approved by referendum.
He refilled her glass.
a refillable gas cylinder
Would you like a refill?
the process of refining oil/sugar
refined sugar
This particular model has a further refinement.
The new plan is a refinement of the one before.
the refinement of industrial techniques
the refinement of uranium
a person of considerable refinement
an atmosphere of refinement
oil refiners
He spent £70 000 refitting his yacht.
The ship has undergone a complete refit.
reflationary policies
His face was reflected in the mirror.
She could see herself reflected in his eyes.
The windows reflected the bright afternoon sunlight.
When the sun's rays hit the earth, a lot of the heat is reflected back into space.
Our newspaper aims to reflect the views of the local community.
Before I decide, I need time to reflect.
She was left to reflect on the implications of her decision.
On the way home he reflected that the interview had gone well.
She reflected how different it could have been.
'It could all have been so different,' she reflected.
This incident reflects badly on everyone involved.
She basked in the reflected glory of her daughter's success.
He admired his reflection in the mirror.
Your clothes are often a reflection of your personality.
The increase in crime is a sad reflection on (= shows sth bad about) our society today.
She decided on reflection to accept his offer after all.
A week off would give him time for reflection.
a book of her reflections on childhood
The article is an accurate reflection of events that day.
a quiet and reflective man
reflective car number plates
On dark nights children should wear reflective clothing.
His abilities are not reflective of the team as a whole.
Everything you do or say is reflective of your personality.
She sipped her wine reflectively.
The doctor tested her reflexes.
to have quick/slow reflexes
a reflex response/reaction
Only the goalkeeper's reflexes (= his ability to react quickly) stopped the ball from going in.
Almost as a reflex action, I grab my pen as the phone rings.
In 'He cut himself', 'cut' is a reflexive verb and 'himself' is a reflexive pronoun.
Policy must refocus on people instead of places.
We need to refocus attention on the real issues facing this country.
Such jokes tend to reinforce racial stereotypes.
The climate of political confusion has only reinforced the country's economic decline.
Success in the talks will reinforce his reputation as an international statesman.
All buildings are now reinforced to withstand earthquakes.
reinforced steel
The UN has undertaken to reinforce its military presence along the borders.
proposals to reform the social security system
The law needs to be reformed.
He has promised to reform.
She thought she could reform him.
a reformed character
a government committed to reform
economic/electoral/constitutional, etc. reform
the reform of the educational system
reforms in education
far-reaching/major/sweeping reforms
It is never too late to reformulate your goals.
Let me try to reformulate the problem.
Light is refracted when passed through a prism.
Please refrain from smoking.
He has refrained from criticizing the government in public.
Complaints about poor food in schools have become a familiar refrain.
The long sleep had refreshed her.
He refreshed himself with a cool shower.
Let me refresh your glass.
He had to refresh his memory by looking at his notes.
Click here to refresh this document.
The page refreshes automatically.
It made a refreshing change to be taken seriously for once.
a refreshing drink/shower
refreshingly different
The house was refreshingly cool inside.
Light refreshments will be served during the break.
In York we had a short stop for refreshment.
Can we offer you some refreshment?
a refreshment room/kiosk/tent
(humorous) liquid refreshment (= alcoholic drink)
a place to rest and find refreshment for mind and body
This dessert can be served straight from the refrigerator.
Once opened, this product should be kept refrigerated.
a refrigerated lorry/truck
Keep all meat products under refrigeration.
to refuel a plane
The planes needed to refuel before the next mission.
a refuelling stop
A further 300 people have taken refuge in the US embassy.
They were forced to seek refuge from the fighting.
a place of refuge
As the situation at home got worse she increasingly took refuge in her work.
He regarded the room as a refuge from the outside world.
a wetland refuge for birds
a women's refuge
a refuge for the homeless
a steady flow of refugees from the war zone
political/economic refugees
a tax refund
to claim/demand/receive a refund
If there is a delay of 12 hours or more, you will receive a full refund of the price of your trip.
Tickets cannot be exchanged or money refunded.
We will refund your money to you in full if you are not entirely satisfied.
We will refund you your money in full.
a refundable deposit
Tickets are not refundable.
The hotel is closed for refurbishment.
the refusal of a request/an invitation/an offer
a blunt/flat/curt refusal
His refusal to discuss the matter is very annoying.
Go on, ask her; she can hardly refuse.
He flatly refused to discuss the matter.
She refused to accept that there was a problem.
I politely refused their invitation.
The job offer was simply too good to refuse.
The bank refused his demand for a full refund.
The authorities refused permission for the new housing development.
They refused him a visa.
She would never refuse her kids anything.
domestic/household refuse
the city refuse dump
refuse collection/disposal
to refute an argument/a theory, etc.
She refutes any suggestion that she behaved unprofessionally.
a refutation of previously held views
a V reg car (= a car with 'V' in its registration number, showing the year that it was registered)
I struggled to regain some dignity.
The party has regained control of the region.
She paused on the edge, trying to regain her balance.
He did not regain consciousness (= wake up after being unconscious) for several days.
They finally managed to regain the beach.
regal power
the regal splendour of the palace
She dismissed him with a regal gesture.
He regaled us with tales of his days as a jazz pianist.
Her work is very highly regarded.
Capital punishment was regarded as inhuman and immoral.
He regards himself as a patriot.
She is widely regarded as the current leader's natural successor.
He regarded us suspiciously.
to do sth with scant/little/no regard for sb/sth
to have/pay/show little regard for other people's property
He was driving without regard to speed limits.
Social services should pay proper regard to the needs of inner-city areas.
He held her in high regard (= had a good opinion of her).
I had great regard for his abilities.
With kind regards, Yours…
Give your brother my regards when you see him.
She has said nothing regarding your request.
Call me if you have any problems regarding your work.
The club welcomes all new members regardless of age.
He went ahead and did it, regardless of the consequences.
The amount will be paid to everyone regardless of whether they have children or not.
Regency architecture
The money will be used to regenerate the commercial heart of the town.
Once destroyed, brain cells do not regenerate.
If the woodland is left alone, it will regenerate itself in a few years.
economic regeneration
the regeneration of cells in the body
the regenerative powers of nature
to act as regent
the Prince Regent
a fascist/totalitarian/military, etc. regime
an oppressive/brutal regime
Our tax regime is one of the most favourable in Europe.
a dietary regime
a regimental flag
regimental headquarters
The school imposes a very regimented lifestyle on its students.
regimented lines of trees
She rebelled against the regimentation of school life.
Regina v Jones
the Arctic/tropical/desert, etc. regions
one of the most densely populated regions of North America
the Basque region of Spain
pains in the abdominal region
regional variations in pronunciation
the conflict between regional and national interests
regional councils/elections/newspapers
regionally based television companies
to register a birth/marriage/death
to register a company/trademark
The ship was registered in Panama.
She is officially registered (as) disabled.
to register with a doctor
to register at a hotel
China has registered a protest over foreign intervention.
The thermometer registered 32°C.
The earthquake registered 3 on the Richter scale.
The stock exchange has registered huge losses this week.
Her face registered disapproval.
Shock registered on everyone's face.
He barely registered our presence.
I told her my name, but it obviously didn't register.
Can I register this, please?
a registered letter
a parish register (= of births, marriages and deaths)
to be on the electoral register/register of voters
Could you sign the hotel register please, sir?
(BrE) The teacher called the register (= checked who was present at school).
in the upper/middle/lower register
The essay suddenly switches from a formal to an informal register.
a paediatric registrar
the registration of letters and parcels
the registration of students for a course
registration fees
vehicle registrations
the registration of a child's birth
to get married in/at a registry office
regular breathing
a regular pulse/heartbeat
A light flashed at regular intervals.
There is a regular bus service to the airport.
regular meetings/visits
The equipment is checked on a regular basis.
Do you take regular exercise?
Domestic violence is a regular occurrence in some families.
our regular customers
regular offenders (= against the law)
He was a regular visitor to her house.
I couldn't see my regular doctor today.
On Monday he would have to return to his regular duties.
It's important to follow the regular procedure.
a face with regular features
a regular geometric pattern
a regular income
She couldn't find any regular employment.
Regular or large fries?
Do you want regular or diet cola?
(approving) He's just a regular guy who loves his dog.
a regular army/soldier
The past participle of regular verbs ends in '-ed'.
The whole thing was a regular disaster.
Regretfully, some jobs will be lost.
Regrettably, some jobs will be lost.
He sighed regretfully.
He's one of our regulars.
We are missing six first-team regulars because of injury.
The policy has been condemned as a regressive step.
If you don't do it now, you'll only regret it.
The decision could be one he lives to regret.
'I've had a wonderful life,' she said, 'I don't regret a thing.'
He bitterly regretted ever having mentioned it.
I deeply regret what I said.
I regret that I never got to meet him in person.
The airline regrets any inconvenience.
I regret that I am unable to accept your kind invitation.
We regret to inform you that your application has not been successful.
It is to be regretted that so many young people leave school without qualifications.
It is with great regret that I accept your resignation.
She expressed her regret at the decision.
a pang/twinge of regret
I have no regrets about leaving Newcastle (= I do not feel sorry about it).
What is your greatest regret (= the thing that you are most sorry about doing or not doing)?
He gave up teaching in 2009, much to the regret of his students.
a regretful look
'I'm afraid not,' he said regretfully.
Emma shook her head regretfully.
Regretfully, mounting costs have forced the museum to close.
It is regrettable that the police were not informed sooner.
The loss of jobs is highly regrettable.
Regrettably, crime has been increasing in this area.
They regrouped their forces and renewed the attack.
After its election defeat, the party needs to regroup.
Summer is a time to relax, regroup and catch up on all those things you've been putting off all year.
We meet regularly to discuss the progress of the project.
I go there quite regularly.
The plants were spaced regularly, about 50 cm apart.
Illegal immigrants were given the opportunity to regularize their position.
Aircraft passed overhead with monotonous regularity.
the striking regularity of her features
They had observed regularities in the behaviour of the animals.
The activities of credit companies are regulated by law.
It is up to the regulating authority to put the measures into effect.
This valve regulates the flow of water.
too many rules and regulations
fire/safety/building, etc. regulations
to comply with the regulations
Under the new regulations spending on office equipment will be strictly controlled.
the strict regulations governing the sale of weapons
the voluntary regulation of the press
in regulation uniform
regulatory bodies/authorities/agencies
to go into rehab
a rehab clinic
a unit for rehabilitating drug addicts
He played a major role in rehabilitating Magritte as an artist.
a drug rehabilitation centre
the rehabilitation of the steel industry
He just rehashes songs from the 60s.
The movie is just a rehash of the best TV episodes.
to have a rehearsal
We only had six days of rehearsal.
Our new production of 'Hamlet' is currently in rehearsal.
a rehearsal room
These training exercises are designed to be a rehearsal for the invasion.
We listened to his lengthy rehearsal of the arguments.
We were given only two weeks to rehearse.
Today, we'll just be rehearsing the final scene.
The actors were poorly rehearsed.
She walked along rehearsing her excuse for being late.
The organization rescues stray dogs and rehomes them.
Thousands of earthquake victims are still waiting to be rehoused.
in/during the reign of Charles II
the reigning monarch
Queen Victoria reigned from 1837 to 1901.
Herod reigned over Palestine at that time.
the reigning champion
In the field of classical music, he still reigns supreme.
At last silence reigned (= there was complete silence).
The oven burners reignite automatically if blown out.
You may need to reignite the pilot light.
(figurative) Their passion was reignited by a romantic trip to Venice.
We will reimburse any expenses incurred.
You will be reimbursed for any loss or damage caused by our company.
She pulled gently on the reins.
It was time to hand over the reins of power (= to give control to sb else).
The vice-president was forced to take up the reins of office.
We need to rein back public spending.
She kept her emotions tightly reined in.
They believe humans are reincarnated in animal form.
herds of reindeer
to send in reinforcements
He was reinstated in his post.
There have been repeated calls to reinstate the death penalty.
to reintroduce the death penalty
plans to reintroduce trams to the city
The former wild man of rock has reinvented himself as a respectable family man.
We need to reinvigorate the economy of the area.
I felt reinvigorated after a rest and a shower.
old jazz recordings reissued on CD
The novel was reissued in paperback.
to reiterate an argument/a demand/an offer
Let me reiterate that we are fully committed to this policy.
'I said “money”,' he reiterated.
a reiteration of her previous statement
to reject an argument/a claim/a decision/an offer/a suggestion
The prime minister rejected any idea of reforming the system.
The proposal was firmly rejected.
All our suggestions were rejected out of hand.
Please reject the following candidates…
I've been rejected by all the universities I applied to.
Imperfect articles are rejected by our quality control.
The lioness rejected the smallest cub, which died.
When her husband left home she felt rejected and useless.
Her proposal met with unanimous rejection.
a rejection letter (= a letter in which you are told, for example, that you have not been accepted for a job)
painful feelings of rejection
one of society's rejects
When the war ended, people finally had cause to rejoice.
The motor industry is rejoicing at the cut in car tax.
They rejoiced to see their son well again.
I rejoice that justice has prevailed.
a time of great rejoicing
to rejoin a club
She turned off her phone and rejoined them at the table.
The path goes through a wood before rejoining the main road.
'You're wrong!' she rejoined.
to rekindle feelings/hopes
a renowned author
It is renowned as one of the region's best restaurants.
She is renowned for her patience.
She was then relegated to the role of assistant.
He relegated the incident to the back of his mind.
teams threatened with relegation
to have/suffer a relapse
a risk of relapse
They relapsed into silence.
He relapsed into his old bad habits.
Two days after leaving the hospital she relapsed into a coma.
diplomatic/international/foreign relations
US-Chinese relations
teacher-pupil relations
Relations with neighbouring countries are under strain at present.
We seek to improve relations between our two countries.
(formal) to have sexual relations (= to have sex)
the relation between rainfall and crop yields
the relation of the farmer to the land
The fee they are offering bears no relation to the amount of work involved.
(formal) I have some comments to make in relation to (= concerning) this matter.
Its brain is small in relation to (= compared with) its body.
a close/near/distant relation of mine
a relation by marriage
a party for friends and relations
He's called Brady too, but we're no relation (= not related).
Is he any relation to you?
The relationship between the police and the local community has improved.
She has a very close relationship with her sister.
I have established a good working relationship with my boss.
a master-servant relationship
Their affair did not develop into a lasting relationship.
She's had a series of miserable relationships.
Are you in a relationship?
the relationship between mental and physical health
This comment bore no relationship to the subject of our conversation.
People alter their voices in relationship to background noise.
a father-son relationship
I'm not sure of the exact relationship between them—I think they're cousins.
I found the test relatively easy.
We had relatively few applications for the job.
Lack of exercise is also a risk factor for heart disease but it's relatively small when compared with the others.
Relatively speaking, these jobs provide good salaries.
a relativist view
a relevant suggestion/question/point
Do you have the relevant experience?
These comments are not directly relevant to this inquiry.
Her novel is still relevant today.
I don't see the relevance of your question.
What he said has no direct relevance to the matter in hand.
a classic play of contemporary relevance
The applicant has experience in teaching and, more relevantly, in industry.
Just relax and enjoy the movie.
I'm going to spend the weekend just relaxing.
When I get home from work I like to relax with the newspaper.
I'll only relax when I know you're safe.
Relax! Everything will be OK.
Allow your muscles to relax completely.
The massage relaxed my tense back muscles.
He relaxed his grip on her arm.
(figurative) The dictator refuses to relax his grip on power.
The council has relaxed the ban on dogs in city parks.
You cannot afford to relax your concentration for a moment.
a muscle relaxant
I go hill-walking for relaxation.
a few days of relaxation
relaxation techniques
Fishing is his favourite relaxation.
the relaxation of foreign currency controls
a relaxation of travel restrictions
He appeared relaxed and confident before the match.
She had a very relaxed manner.
a family-run hotel with a relaxed atmosphere
I take a fairly relaxed attitude towards what the kids wear to school.
a relaxing evening with friends
He relayed the message to his boss.
Instructions were relayed to him by phone.
The game was relayed by satellite to audiences all over the world.
the 4 × 100m relay
a relay team
the sprint relay
Rescuers worked in relays to save the trapped miners.
a relay station
to relieve the symptoms of a cold
to relieve anxiety/guilt/stress
Being able to tell the truth at last seemed to relieve her.
efforts to relieve poverty
to relieve traffic congestion
We played cards to relieve the boredom of the long wait.
The black and white pattern is relieved by tiny coloured flowers.
to relieve a sentry
You'll be relieved at six o'clock.
I had to relieve myself behind a bush.
Let me relieve you of some of your bags.
The new secretary will relieve us of some of the paperwork.
A boy with a knife relieved him of his wallet.
General Beale was relieved of his command.
She sounded relieved.
You'll be relieved to know your jobs are safe.
I'm just relieved that nobody was hurt.
They exchanged relieved glances.
'Well, just for a little while then,' she said, finally relenting.
After two days the rain relented.
The police will not relent in their fight against crime.
her relentless pursuit of perfection
The sun was relentless.
a relentless enemy
We are looking for someone who is reliable and hard-working.
a reliable friend
Our information comes from a reliable source.
a reliable witness
My car's not as reliable as it used to be.
The incident cast doubt on her motives and reliability.
The reliability of these results has been questioned.
I am reliably informed (= told by sb who knows the facts) that the company is being sold.
Heavy reliance on one client is risky when you are building up a business.
Such learning methods encourage too great a reliance upon the teacher.
The study programme concentrates more on group work and places less reliance on (= depends less on) lectures.
I wouldn't place too much reliance on (= trust) these figures.
The hostel is heavily reliant upon charity.
The building stands as the last remaining relic of the town's cotton industry.
Videotapes may already seem like relics of a bygone era.
holy relics
As babies, we rely entirely on others for food.
These days we rely heavily on computers to organize our work.
The industry relies on the price of raw materials remaining low.
You should rely on your own judgement.
You can rely on me to keep your secret.
He can't be relied on to tell the truth.
a sense of relief
We all breathed a sigh of relief when he left.
She sighed with relief.
Much to my relief the car was not damaged.
News of their safety came as a great relief.
It was a relief to be able to talk to someone about it.
What a relief!
modern methods of pain relief
the relief of suffering
famine relief
a relief agency/organization/worker
relief on mortgage interest payments
a few moments of light relief in an otherwise dull performance
There was little comic relief in his speech.
The calm of the countryside came as a welcome relief from the hustle and bustle of city life.
The next crew relief comes on duty at 9 o'clock.
relief drivers
The column was decorated in high relief (= with designs that stick out a lot) with scenes from Greek mythology.
The bronze doors are covered with sculpted reliefs.
The snow-capped mountain stood out in sharp relief against the blue sky.
Their differences have been thrown into sharp relief by the present crisis.
religious beliefs/faith
religious education (= education about religion)
religious instruction (= instruction in a particular religion)
religious groups
objects which have a religious significance
His wife is very religious.
Is there always a conflict between science and religion?
the Jewish religion
Christianity, Islam and other world religions
The law states that everyone has the right to practise their own religion.
For him, football is an absolute religion.
She followed the instructions religiously.
Were you brought up religiously?
He was forced to relinquish control of the company.
They had relinquished all hope that she was alive.
She relinquished possession of the house to her sister.
to relish a fight/challenge/debate
to relish the idea/thought of sth
I don't relish the prospect of getting up early tomorrow.
Nobody relishes cleaning the oven.
She savoured the moment with obvious relish.
He relives the horror of the crash every night in his dreams.
All the rellies will be at the party.
The firm may be forced to relocate from New York to Stanford.
The company relocated its head office to Stanford.
relocation costs
reluctant agreement
She was reluctant to admit she was wrong.
He finally gave a reluctant smile.
a reluctant hero (= a person who does not want to be called a hero)
There is still some reluctance on the part of employers to become involved in this project.
They finally agreed to our terms with a certain reluctance.
We reluctantly agreed to go with her.
I kept some of his books and gave away the remainder.
Most of our employees work in New York; the remainder are in London.
Divide 2 into 7, and the answer is 3, remainder 1.
The remaining twenty patients were transferred to another hospital.
Any remaining tickets for the concert will be sold on the door.
She fed the remains of her lunch to the dog.
prehistoric remains
the remains of a Roman fort
They had discovered human remains.
'The Seven Samurai' was remade in Hollywood as 'The Magnificent Seven'.
The two men were charged with burglary and remanded in custody (= sent to prison until their trial).
She was remanded on bail (= allowed to go free until the trial after leaving a sum of money with the court).
He is currently being held on remand.
a remand prisoner
to make a remark
He made a number of rude remarks about the food.
What exactly did you mean by that last remark?
The exhibition contains nothing that is worthy of remark.
The judges remarked on the high standard of entries for the competition.
She remarked how tired I was looking.
'It's much colder than yesterday,' he remarked casually.
Critics remarked that the play was not original.
The similarities between the two have often been remarked on.
a remarkable achievement/career/talent
She was a truly remarkable woman.
The area is remarkable for its scenery.
It is remarkable that nobody noticed sooner.
The car is in remarkably good condition for its age.
Remarkably, nobody was killed.
All the tracks have been digitally remastered from the original tapes.
This is Carla. Do you remember her?
I don't remember my first day at school.
He still remembered her as the lively teenager he'd known years before.
As far as I can remember, this is the third time we've met.
Do you remember switching the lights off before we came out?
I vaguely remember hearing him come in.
I can still vividly remember my grandfather teaching me to play cards.
(formal) I can't remember his taking a single day off work.
I remember (that) we used to go and see them most weekends.
I'm sorry—I can't remember your name.
You were going to help me with this. Remember?
Can you remember how much money we spent?
Remember that we're going out tonight.
Remember (that) you may feel sleepy after taking the pills.
It should be remembered that the majority of accidents happen in the home.
Remember to call me when you arrive!
Did you remember your homework (= to bring it)?
a church service to remember the war dead
My aunt always remembers my birthday (= by sending a card or present).
His grandfather remembered him (= left him money) in his will.
Remember me to your parents.
remediable problems/diseases
remedial treatment (= for a medical problem)
Remedial action must be taken now.
remedial education
a remedial class
remediation of contaminated soil
The problems need to be detected and remediated quickly.
There is no simple remedy for unemployment.
There are a number of possible remedies to this problem.
a herbal remedy
an excellent home remedy for sore throats
Holding copyright provides the only legal remedy against unauthorized copying.
to remedy a problem
This situation is easily remedied.
A service was held in remembrance of local soldiers killed in the war.
a remembrance service
(formal) He smiled at the remembrance of their first kiss.
The cenotaph stands as a remembrance of those killed during the war.
The woods are remnants of a huge forest which once covered the whole area.
I'm sorry, I've forgotten your name. Can you remind me?
That (= what you have just said, done, etc.) reminds me, I must get some cash.
'You need to finish that essay.' ' Don't remind me (= I don't want to think about it).'
'Don't forget the camera.' 'Remind me about it nearer the time.'
Remind me to phone Alan before I go out.
Passengers are reminded (that) no smoking is allowed on this train.
Can someone remind me what I should do next?
'You had an accident,' he reminded her.
You remind me of your father when you say that.
That smell reminds me of France.
The sheer size of the cathedral is a constant reminder of the power of religion.
The incident served as a timely reminder of just how dangerous mountaineering can be.
The way he laughed was strongly reminiscent of his father.
a reminiscent smile
We spent a happy evening reminiscing about the past.
The book is a collection of his reminiscences about the actress.
reminiscences of a wartime childhood
Her music is full of reminiscences of African rhythms.
It was remiss of them not to inform us of these changes sooner.
She had clearly been remiss in her duty.
The patient has been in remission for the past six months.
The symptoms reappeared after only a short remission.
New businesses may qualify for tax remission.
There is a partial remission of fees for overseas students.
Such decisions are outside the remit of this committee.
In future, staff recruitment will fall within the remit of the division manager.
a remit to report on medical services
to remit funds
Payment will be remitted to you in full.
to remit a fine
to remit a prison sentence
The case was remitted to the Court of Appeal.
Please return the completed form with your remittance.
Remittance can be made by cheque or credit card.
the skills of remixer Tom Moulton
They remonstrated with the official about the decision.
I felt guilty and full of remorse.
He was filled with remorse for not believing her.
the remorseless increase in crime
a remorseless killer
a remote beach
one of the remotest areas of the world
The farmhouse is remote from any other buildings.
in the remote past/future
a remote ancestor (= who lived a long time ago)
a remote cousin
a remote terminal/database
His theories are somewhat remote from reality.
There is still a remote chance that they will find her alive.
I don't have the remotest idea what you're talking about.
the geographical remoteness of the island
His remoteness made her feel unloved.
It works by remote control.
a remote-control camera
I can't find the remote control.
remote-controlled equipment
It wasn't even remotely funny (= it wasn't at all funny).
The two incidents were only remotely connected.
remotely operated
The church is remotely situated on the north coast of the island.
attempts to remould policy to make it more acceptable
Clearance of the site required the removal of a number of trees.
the removal of a tumour
stain removal
events leading to the removal of the president from office
house removals
a removal company/firm
When are the removal men coming?
Illegally parked vehicles will be removed.
He removed his hand from her shoulder.
Three children were removed from the school for persistent bad behaviour.
She removed her glasses and rubbed her eyes.
She has had the tumour removed.
to remove problems/obstacles/objections
The news removed any doubts about the company's future.
The elections removed the government from power.
Charlotte seemed to be living at one remove from reality.
nail varnish remover
stain remover
a firm of removers
remunerative work
Renaissance art
to experience a renaissance
renal failure
to rename a street
Leningrad was renamed St Petersburg.
renascent fascism
They rent their clothes in grief.
(figurative) a country rent in two by civil war
(figurative) Loud screams rent the air.
to render sth harmless/useless/ineffective
Hundreds of people were rendered homeless by the earthquake.
They rendered assistance to the disaster victims.
to render a service to sb
to render sb a service
It was payment for services rendered.
The committee was asked to render a report on the housing situation.
He stood up and rendered a beautiful version of 'Summertime'.
The artist has rendered the stormy sea in dark greens and browns.
The Italian phrase can be rendered as 'I did my best'.
It's a concept that is difficult to render into English.
her dramatic rendering of Lady Macbeth
a faithful rendering of the original text
a lively Paris rendezvous
to renege on a deal/debt/contract, etc.
The army renewed its assault on the capital.
We have to renew our efforts to attract young players.
The annual dinner is a chance to renew acquaintance with old friends.
to renew a licence/lease/subscription/contract, etc.
How do I go about renewing my passport?
I'd like to renew these library books (= arrange to borrow them for a further period of time).
to renew an appeal/a request/a complaint, etc.
Community leaders have renewed calls for a peaceful settlement.
The project is to go ahead following renewed promises of aid from the UN.
The wiring in your house should be renewed every ten to fifteen years.
renewable sources of energy such as wind and solar power
a renewable lease
The work permit is not renewable.
renewables such as hydro-electricity and solar energy
investment in renewables
a renewal of interest in traditional teaching methods
The lease comes up for renewal at the end of the month.
the renewal date
economic renewal
urban renewal (= the act of improving the buildings, etc. in a particular area)
Renewed fighting has been reported on the border.
with renewed enthusiasm
buildings in need of renovation
There will be extensive renovations to the hospital.
to renounce a claim/title/privilege/right
to renounce ideals/principles/beliefs, etc.
a joint declaration renouncing the use of violence
He had renounced his former associates.
He won renown as a fair judge.
a pianist of some/international/great renown
How much rent do you pay for this place?
The landlord has put the rent up again.
a month's rent in advance
a high/low/fair rent
(BrE) a rent book (= used to record payments of rent)
to live in rented accommodation/housing/property
Who do you rent the land from?
He rents rooms in his house to students.
The land is rented out to other farmers.
She agreed to rent the room to me.
She agreed to rent me the room.
We rented a car for the week and explored the area.
Shall we rent a movie this evening?
The apartment rents for $500 a month.
rent-a-car
rent-a-crowd
rent-free housing
Telephone charges include line rental.
the world's largest car rental company
DVD rental
(especially NAmE) a rental car
a minimum rental period of three months
'Is this your own car?' 'No, it's a rental.'
a rented studio
house buyers and renters
the nation's biggest automobile renter
the renunciation of violence
Without help, many released prisoners will reoffend.
The school was reopened just two weeks after the fire.
The store will reopen at 9 a.m. on 2 January.
to reopen a discussion
The police have decided to reopen the case.
Management have agreed to reopen talks with the union.
The trial reopened on 6 March.
Please quote this reference number when reordering stock.
the reorganization of the school system
Other governments may reorient their foreign policies away from the United States.
a union rep
She earns more since she repackaged herself as a business consultant.
to repair a car/roof/road/television
It's almost 15 years old. It isn't worth having it repaired.
It was too late to repair the damage done to their relationship.
TV repairers
They agreed to pay the costs of any repairs.
I took my bike in for repair.
The building was in need of repair.
a TV repair shop
The car was damaged beyond repair (= it was too badly damaged to be repaired).
The hotel is currently under repair (= being repaired).
The bridge will remain closed until essential repair work has been carried out.
a TV repairman
Offenders should be forced to make reparation to the community.
The refugees were forcibly repatriated.
the repatriation of immigrants/profits
a voluntary repatriation programme
to repay a debt/loan/mortgage
I'll repay the money I owe them next week.
The advance must be repaid to the publisher if the work is not completed on time.
When are you going to repay them?
I fully intend to repay them the money that they lent me.
How can I ever repay you for your generosity?
Their trust was repaid with fierce loyalty.
The report repays careful reading.
The loan is repayable in monthly instalments.
The loan is due for repayment by the end of the year.
We were unable to meet (= pay) the repayments on the loan.
mortgage repayments
to repeat a question
I'm sorry—could you repeat that?
She kept repeating his name softly over and over again.
The opposition have been repeating their calls for the president's resignation.
Do say if I'm repeating myself (= if I have already said this).
He's fond of repeating that the company's success is all down to him.
to repeat a mistake/a process/an exercise
The treatment should be repeated every two to three hours.
They are hoping to repeat last year's victory.
These offers are unlikely to be repeated.
The programmes will be repeated next year.
to repeat the class/year/grade (= in a school, to take the class/year/grade again)
Lift and lower the right leg 20 times. Repeat with the left leg.
History has a strange way of repeating itself.
a repeating pattern/design
I don't want you to repeat a word of this to anyone.
The rumour has been widely repeated in the press.
Listen and repeat each sentence after me.
Can you repeat what I've just said word for word?
'Are you really sure?' she repeated.
Do you find that onions repeat on you?
The claims are, I repeat, totally unfounded.
I am not, repeat not, travelling in the same car as him!
'Is it a new series?' 'No, a repeat.'
A repeat of the 1906 earthquake could kill up to 11 000 people.
She didn't want a repeat performance of what had happened the night before.
(business 商业) a repeat order (= for a further supply of the same goods)
His reply was not repeatable.
repeated absences from work
The victim had been stabbed repeatedly in the chest.
a repetitive task
a repetitive pattern of behaviour
I have the greatest respect for your brother.
A two-minute silence was held as a mark of respect.
A deep mutual respect and understanding developed between them.
It was very interesting. Respect! (= used to praise sb)
to show a lack of respect for authority
He has no respect for her feelings.
Everyone has a right to be treated with respect.
In this respect we are very fortunate.
There was one respect, however, in which they differed.
The two groups were similar with respect to income and status.
I respect Jack's opinion on most subjects.
a much loved and highly respected teacher
She had always been honest with me, and I respect her for that.
to respect other people's property
She promised to respect our wishes.
He doesn't respect other people's right to privacy.
The new leader has promised to respect the constitution.
to repel an attack/invasion/invader
Troops repelled an attempt to infiltrate the south of the island.
(figurative) The reptile's prickly skin repels nearly all of its predators.
a cream that repels insects
The fabric has been treated to repel water.
I was repelled by the smell.
Like poles repel each other.
Their political ideas are repellent to most people.
water-repellent cloth
(an) insect repellent
(a) water repellent
God welcomes the sinner who repents.
She had repented of what she had done.
He came to repent his hasty decision (= wished he had not taken it).
He shows no sign of repentance.
The collapse of the company will have repercussions for the whole industry.
a pianist with a wide repertoire
a young child's growing verbal repertoire
an actor in repertory
a repertory company
learning by repetition
We do not want to see a repetition of last year's tragic events.
a long and repetitious speech
The new design will eventually replace all existing models.
Teachers will never be replaced by computers in the classroom.
He will be difficult to replace when he leaves.
It is not a good idea to miss meals and replace them with snacks.
All the old carpets need replacing.
You'll be expected to replace any broken glasses.
I replaced the cup carefully in the saucer.
to replace the handset (= after using the telephone).
the replacement of worn car parts
replacement windows
a hip replacement
We need to find a replacement for Sue.
We watched a replay of the wedding on DVD.
This election will not be a replay of the last one.
The police replayed footage of the accident over and over again.
(figurative) He replayed the scene in his mind.
to replenish food and water supplies
Allow me to replenish your glass.
literature replete with drama and excitement
a replica of the Eiffel Tower
The weapon used in the raid was a replica.
replica guns
The design is easily replicable.
Subsequent experiments failed to replicate these findings.
The drug prevents the virus from replicating itself.
The design is easily replicable.
to reply to a question/an advertisement
He never replied to any of my letters.
She only replied with a smile.
'I won't let you down,' he replied confidently.
The senator replied that he was not in a position to comment.
The terrorists replied to the government's statement with more violence.
We had over 100 replies to our advertisement.
I asked her what her name was but she made no reply.
(formal) I am writing in reply to your letter of 16 March.
(BrE) a reply-paid envelope (= on which you do not have to put a stamp because it has already been paid for)
(BrE) Morocco scored four goals without reply to win the game.
She made no response.
In response to your enquiry…
I received an encouraging response to my advertisement.
The news provoked an angry response.
a positive response
I knocked on the door but there was no response.
The product was developed in response to customer demand.
We sent out over 1 000 letters but the response rate has been low (= few people replied).
Mike is responsible for designing the entire project.
Even where parents no longer live together, they each continue to be responsible for their children.
Who's responsible for this mess?
Everything will be done to bring those responsible to justice.
He is mentally ill and cannot be held responsible for his actions.
Cigarette smoking is responsible for about 90% of deaths from lung cancer.
The Council of Ministers is responsible to the Assembly.
Clare has a mature and responsible attitude to work.
a responsible job/position
The crash happened seconds after the pilot reported engine trouble.
Call me urgently if you have anything to report.
The committee will report on its research next month.
The neighbours reported seeing him leave the building around noon.
The doctor reported the patient fully recovered.
The house was reported as being in excellent condition.
The house was reported to be in excellent condition.
Employers reported that graduates were deficient in writing and problem-solving skills.
She failed to report what had occurred.
'The cabin's empty,' he reported.
The stabbing was reported in the local press.
It was reported that several people had been arrested.
The TV news reported that several people had been arrested.
She reports on royal stories for the BBC.
She is reported to earn over $10 million a year.
The President is reported as saying that he needs a break.
It was reported that changes were being considered.
Have you reported the accident to the police yet?
a decrease in the number of reported cases of AIDS
He's already been reported twice for arriving late.
She has reported her daughter missing.
You should report for duty at 9.30 a.m.
All visitors must report to the reception desk on arrival.
Take an hour for lunch and report back at 2.
Find out as much as you can about him and report back to me.
One person in the group should be prepared to report back to the class on your discussion.
They reported back that no laws had actually been broken.
a weather report
a police/medical report
Can you give us a progress report?
The committee will publish their report on the health service in a few weeks.
I don't believe these reports of UFO sightings.
There are unconfirmed reports of a shooting in the capital.
a school report
to get a good/bad report
a weekly meeting with my direct reports
a loud report
The band have reportedly decided to split up.
In reported speech, 'I'll come later' becomes 'He said he'd come later'.
a reporter from the New York Times
a crime reporter
accurate/balanced/objective reporting
(BrE) Reporting restrictions on the trial have been lifted (= it can now legally be reported).
My father is a repository of family history.
(BrE) First I lost my job, then my house was repossessed.
families threatened with repossession
a repossession order
Auctions are the best place for buying repossessions.
The competition attracted over 500 contestants representing 8 different countries.
Local businesses are well represented on the committee (= there are a lot of people from them on the committee).
The President was represented at the ceremony by the Vice-President.
The union represents over 200 000 teachers.
The association was formed to represent the interests of women artists.
Ms Dale is representing the defendant (= is his/her lawyer) in the case.
This contract represents 20% of the company's annual revenue.
This decision represents a significant departure from previous policy.
a project representing all that is good in the community
Those comments do not represent the views of us all.
Each colour on the chart represents a different department.
Wind direction is represented by arrows.
The carvings represent a hunting scene.
The results are represented in fig.3 below.
The king is represented as a villain in the play.
The risks were represented as negligible.
They represented their concerns to the authorities.
the negative representation of single mothers in the media
The snake swallowing its tail is a representation of infinity.
The green movement lacks effective representation in Parliament.
The accused was not allowed legal representation.
We have made representations to the prime minister, but without success.
local representational democracy
a representative of the UN
our elected representatives in government
a union representative
The committee includes representatives from industry.
a sales representative
She's our representative in France.
He was the Queen's representative at the ceremony.
The singer is regarded as a representative of the youth of her generation.
Is a questionnaire answered by 500 people truly representative of the population as a whole?
a representative sample of teachers
The painting is not representative of his work of the period.
a representative democracy
to repress a smile
He burst in, making no effort to repress his fury.
repressed anger
government repression
sexual repression
a repressive regime/measure/law
a reprieved murderer
70 jobs have been reprieved until next April.
Campaigners have won a reprieve for the hospital threatened with closure.
The officers were severely reprimanded for their unprofessional behaviour.
He received a severe reprimand for his behaviour.
They did not want to give evidence for fear of reprisals.
They shot ten hostages in reprisal for the assassination of their leader.
Victorian repro furniture
His voice was full of reproach.
The captain's behaviour is above/beyond reproach (= you cannot criticize it).
He listened to his wife's bitter reproaches.
Her actions brought reproach upon herself.
Such living conditions are a reproach to our society.
She was reproached by colleagues for leaking the story to the press.
He reproached himself for not telling her the truth.
a reproachful look
All these countries reprocess nuclear fuel.
It is illegal to reproduce these worksheets without permission from the publisher.
The photocopier reproduces colours very well.
The atmosphere of the novel is successfully reproduced in the movie.
Most reptiles reproduce by laying eggs on land.
cells reproducing themselves (= making new ones)
sexual reproduction
Use a black pen on white paper to ensure good reproduction.
Digital recording gives excellent sound reproduction.
a catalogue with colour reproductions of the paintings for sale
reproduction furniture (= furniture made as a copy of an earlier style)
reproductive organs
His words were a mixture of pity and reproof.
She received a mild reproof from the teacher.
He reproved her for rushing away.
a reproving glance
our reptilian ancestors
(figurative) He licked his lips in an unpleasantly reptilian way.
newly independent republics
the Republic of Ireland
a republican government/movement
a strong commitment to Republicanism
to repudiate a suggestion
to repudiate a report
He repudiated his first wife and married her sister.
She was trying to overcome her physical repugnance for him.
We found his suggestion absolutely repugnant.
The idea of eating meat was repugnant to her.
I was repulsed by the horrible smell.
to repulse an attack/invasion/offensive
Each time I tried to help I was repulsed.
She repulsed his advances.
the forces of attraction and repulsion
a repulsive sight/smell/habit
What a repulsive man!
repulsive forces
repulsively ugly
a reputable dealer/company/supplier
to earn/establish/build a reputation
to have a good/bad reputation
She soon acquired a reputation as a first-class cook.
I'm aware of Mark's reputation for being late.
to damage/ruin sb's reputation
The weather in England is living up to its reputation (= is exactly as expected).
She is a writer of international repute.
My parents were artists of (some) repute (= having a very good reputation).
He is reputed to be the best heart surgeon in the country.
The house is wrongly reputed to have been the poet's birthplace.
She sold her share of the company for a reputed £7 million.
They made a request for further aid.
He was there at the request of his manager/at his manager's request (= because his manager had asked him to go).
The writer's name was withheld by request (= because the writer asked for this to be done).
Catalogues are available on request.
My request was granted.
a radio request programme (= a programme of music, songs, etc. that people have asked for)
She requested permission to film at the White House.
You can request a free copy of the leaflet.
You are requested not to smoke in the restaurant.
She requested that no one be told of her decision until the next meeting.
(BrE also ) She requested that no one should be told of her decision.
'Please come with me,' he requested.
the basic requirements of life
a software package to meet your requirements
Our immediate requirement is extra staff.
These goods are surplus to requirements (= more than we need).
to meet/fulfil/satisfy the requirements
What is the minimum entrance requirement for this course?
She lacks the requisite experience for the job.
toilet requisites (= soap, toothpaste, etc.)
A university degree has become a requisite for entry into most professions.
the requisition of ships by the government
a requisition form/order
The school was requisitioned as a military hospital.
requited love
reruns of old TV shows
We wanted to avoid a rerun of last year's disastrous trip.
to rerun an experiment
the resale value of a car
Students are only allowed one resit.
The meeting has been rescheduled for next week.
He rescued a child from drowning.
The house was rescued from demolition.
You rescued me from an embarrassing situation.
They were eventually rescued by helicopter.
She had despaired of ever being rescued alive.
We had given up hope of rescue.
A wealthy benefactor came to their rescue with a generous donation.
a rescue attempt/operation
a mountain rescue team
rescue workers/boats/helicopters
Ten fishermen were saved in a daring sea rescue.
Rescue workers are working under very difficult conditions to find survivors from the blast.
He resells the goods at a profit.
a striking/close/strong resemblance
family resemblances
She bears an uncanny resemblance to Dido.
The movie bears little resemblance to the original novel.
The resemblance between the two signatures was remarkable.
She closely resembles her sister.
So many hotels resemble each other.
The plant resembles grass in appearance.
I deeply resented her criticism.
He bitterly resents being treated like a child.
She resented him making all the decisions.
(formal) She resented his making all the decisions.
a resentful look
They seemed to be resentful of our presence there.
She was resentful at having been left out of the team.
to feel/harbour/bear resentment towards/against sb
She could not conceal the deep resentment she felt at the way she had been treated.
I'll call the restaurant and make a reservation.
We have a reservation in the name of Grant.
I have serious reservations about his ability to do the job.
They support the measures without reservation (= completely).
I'd like to reserve a table for three for eight o'clock.
I've reserved a room in the name of Jones.
These seats are reserved for special guests.
I'd prefer to reserve (my) judgement (= not make a decision) until I know all the facts.
The management reserves the right to refuse admission.
(law 法律) All rights reserved (= nobody else can publish or copy this).
large oil and gas reserves
He discovered unexpected reserves of strength.
reserve funds
a wildlife reserve
She found it difficult to make friends because of her natural reserve.
Any contract should be treated with reserve until it has been checked.
She trusted him without reserve (= completely).
the Army Reserve
the reserve police
You need to reset your watch to local time.
to reset a broken bone
Many of the refugees were resettled in Britain and Canada.
The region was only resettled 200 years later.
The birds flew around and then resettled on the pond.
the resettlement of refugees
a resettlement agency
The Prime Minister eventually decided against reshuffling the Cabinet.
a Cabinet reshuffle
a desirable family residence for sale (= for example, in an advertisement)
10 Downing Street is the British Prime Minister's official residence.
They were not able to take up residence in their new home until the spring.
Please state your occupation and place of residence.
The flag flies when the Queen is in residence.
They have been denied residence in this country.
a residence permit
She has been granted permanent residency in Britain.
a residency requirement for students
a quiet residential area
a residential language course
a residential home for the elderly
residential care for children
There are still a few residual problems with the computer program.
pesticide residues in fruit and vegetables
The residue of the estate was divided equally among his children.
He resigned as manager after eight years.
Two members resigned from the board in protest.
My father resigned his directorship last year.
She resigned herself to her fate.
We had to resign ourselves to making a loss on the sale.
a letter of resignation
There were calls for her resignation from the board of directors.
Further resignations are expected.
to offer/hand in/tender your resignation
We haven't received his resignation yet.
They accepted their defeat with resignation.
a resigned sigh
He was resigned to never seeing his birthplace again.
'I suppose you're right,' she said resignedly.
He'll get over it—young people are amazingly resilient.
the resinous scent of pine trees
to resist change
They are determined to resist pressure to change the law.
The bank strongly resisted cutting interest rates.
He tried to pin me down, but I resisted.
She was charged with resisting arrest.
I finished the cake. I couldn't resist it.
I found the temptation to miss the class too hard to resist.
He couldn't resist showing off his new car.
A healthy diet should help your body resist infection.
This new paint is designed to resist heat.
As with all new ideas it met with resistance.
There has been a lot of resistance to this new law.
Resistance to change has nearly destroyed the industry.
armed resistance
The defenders put up a strong resistance.
The demonstrators offered little or no resistance to the police.
AIDS lowers the body's resistance to infection.
wind/air resistance (= in the design of planes or cars)
resistance fighters
plants that are resistant to disease
Elderly people are not always resistant to change.
disease-resistant plants
fire-resistant materials
resolute leadership
He became even more resolute in his opposition to the plan.
They remain resolutely opposed to the idea.
to pass/adopt/carry a resolution
The government is pressing for an early resolution of the dispute.
The reforms owe a great deal to the resolution of one man.
She made a resolution to visit her relatives more often.
Have you made any New Year's resolutions (= for example, to give up smoking from 1 January)?
high-resolution graphics
to resolve an issue/a dispute/a conflict/a crisis
Both sides met in order to try to resolve their differences.
He resolved not to tell her the truth.
She resolved (that) she would never see him again.
We had resolved on making an early start.
It was resolved that the matter be referred to a higher authority.
They resolved that the matter be referred to a higher authority.
The Supreme Council resolved to resume control over the national press.
to resolve a complex argument into its basic elements
The orange light resolved itself into four lanterns.
The discussion eventually resolved itself into two main issues.
The difficulties in her way merely strengthened her resolve.
The government reiterated its resolve to uncover the truth.
I was resolved not to see him.
Her voice had a strange and thrilling resonance.
a deep resonant voice
resonant frequencies
a poem filled with resonant imagery
a resonating chamber
The room resonated with the chatter of 100 people.
These issues resonated with the voters.
She makes a simple story resonate with complex themes and emotions.
seaside/ski/mountain, etc. resorts
(BrE) a popular holiday resort
the resort town of Byron Bay
There are hopes that the conflict can be resolved without resort to violence.
Strike action should be regarded as a last resort, when all attempts to negotiate have failed.
In the last resort (= in the end) everyone must decide for themselves.
They felt obliged to resort to violence.
We may have to resort to using untrained staff.
Laughter resounded through the house.
(figurative) The tragedy resounded around the world.
The street resounded to the thud of marching feet.
a resounding victory/win/defeat
The evening was a resounding success.
the exploitation of minerals and other natural resources
We do not have the resources (= money) to update our computer software.
We must make the most efficient use of the available financial resources.
We agreed to pool our resources (= so that everyone gives sth).
The database could be used as a teaching resource in colleges.
Time is your most valuable resource, especially in examinations.
resource books for teachers
He has no inner resources and hates being alone.
Schools in the area are still inadequately resourced.
a highly respectable neighbourhood
a respectable married man
Go and make yourself look respectable.
a perfectly respectable result
respectably dressed
The onlookers stood at a respectful distance.
We were brought up to be respectful of authority.
He listened respectfully.
information respecting the child's whereabouts
They are each recognized specialists in their respective fields.
the respective roles of men and women in society
Julie and Mark, aged 17 and 19 respectively
Blood pressure and respiration are also recorded.
She was put on a respirator.
the respiratory system
respiratory diseases
There was no respite from the suffocating heat.
She continued to work without respite.
respite care (= temporary care arranged for old, mentally ill, etc. people so that the people who usually care for them can have a rest)
His creditors agreed to give him a temporary respite.
He glimpsed Sonia, resplendent in a red dress.
I asked him his name, but he didn't respond.
She never responded to my letter.
'I'm not sure,' she responded.
When asked about the company's future, the director responded that he remained optimistic.
How did they respond to the news?
The government responded by banning all future demonstrations.
The car responds very well to the controls.
You can rely on him to respond to a challenge.
The infection did not respond to the drugs.
60% of the respondents agreed with the suggestion.
We are recruiting a sales manager with responsibility for the European market.
They have responsibility for ensuring that the rules are enforced.
It is their responsibility to ensure that the rules are enforced.
parental rights and responsibilities
to take/assume overall responsibility for personnel
I don't feel ready to take on new responsibilities.
to be in a position of responsibility
I did it on my own responsibility (= without being told to and being willing to take the blame if it had gone wrong).
The bank refuses to accept responsibility for the mistake.
Nobody has claimed responsibility for the bombing.
She feels a strong sense of responsibility towards her employees.
I think we have a moral responsibility to help these countries.
The average response time to emergency calls was 9 minutes.
to act responsibly
Firms have to be responsive to consumer demand.
a flu virus that is not responsive to treatment
The club is responsive to new ideas.
a responsive and enthusiastic audience
a lack of responsiveness to client needs
I'm not doing this job for the rest of my life.
How would you like to spend the rest of the day?
Take what you want and throw the rest away.
Don't blame Alex. He's human, like the rest of us.
The first question was difficult, but the rest were pretty easy.
I had a good night's rest.
We stopped for a well-earned rest.
to have/take a rest from all your hard work
Try to get some rest —you have a busy day tomorrow.
There are no matches tomorrow, which is a rest day, but the tournament resumes on Monday.
an armrest (= for example on a seat or chair)
The doctor told me to rest.
I can rest easy (= stop worrying) knowing that she's safely home.
(figurative) He won't rest (= will never be satisfied) until he finds her.
Rest your eyes every half an hour.
Rest your head on my shoulder.
He rested his chin in his hands.
His chin rested on his hands.
Their bikes were resting against the wall.
The matter cannot rest there—I intend to sue.
She rests beside her husband in the local cemetery.
May he rest in peace.
All our hopes now rest on you.
Her eyes rested on the piece of paper in my hand.
The whole argument rests on a false assumption.
It rests with management to justify their actions.
The final decision rests with the doctors.
an Italian restaurant
We had a meal in a restaurant.
We went out to a restaurant to celebrate.
a restaurant owner
a self-service restaurant
to restart a game
The doctors struggled to restart his heart.
The palace is closed for restoration.
restoration work
the restoration of democracy/the monarchy
the restoration of the Elgin marbles to Greece
Restoration comedy/poetry (= written during and after this time)
I awoke feeling rested and refreshed.
a hotel with a restful atmosphere
her final/last resting place
The audience was becoming restless.
After five years in the job, he was beginning to feel restless.
a restless night
He moved restlessly from one foot to the other.
the restlessness of youth
the restorative power of fresh air
restorative dentistry/surgery
The measures are intended to restore public confidence in the economy.
Order was quickly restored after the riots.
Such kindness restores your faith in human nature (= makes you believe most people are kind).
The operation restored his sight (= made him able to see again).
He is now fully restored to health.
We hope to restore the garden to its former glory (= make it as beautiful as it used to be).
Her job is restoring old paintings.
to restore ancient traditions
Some people argue that the death penalty should be restored.
The police have now restored the painting to its rightful owner.
The prisoner had to be restrained by the police.
He placed a restraining hand on her arm.
They have obtained an injunction restraining the company from selling the product.
John managed to restrain his anger.
She had to restrain herself from crying out in pain.
The government is taking steps to restrain inflation.
her restrained smile
The costumes and lighting in the play were restrained.
wage restraint
The police appealed to the crowd for restraint.
He exercised considerable restraint in ignoring the insults.
the physical restraint of prisoners
Children must use an approved child restraint or adult seat belt.
Speed is restricted to 30 mph in towns.
We restrict the number of students per class to 10.
Fog severely restricted visibility.
Having small children tends to restrict your freedom.
The long skirt restricted her movements.
Access to the club is restricted to members only.
I restrict myself to one cup of coffee a day.
a restricted space
a restricted range of foods
In those days women led fairly restricted lives.
Her vision is restricted in one eye.
to allow children only restricted access to the Internet
(BrE) a restricted area (= controlled by laws about speed or parking)
The tournament is restricted to players under the age of 23.
to enter a restricted zone
a restricted document
import/speed/travel, etc. restrictions
to impose/place a restriction on sth
The government has agreed to lift restrictions on press freedom.
sports clothes that prevent any restriction of movement
the restrictions of a prison
restrictive laws
The failure of the company was a direct result of bad management.
He made one big mistake, and, as a result, lost his job.
The farm was flooded, with the result that most of the harvest was lost.
The end result (= the final one) of her hard work was a place at medical school.
They will announce the result of the vote tonight.
the election results
the football results
We badly need to get a result from this match.
Have you had your results yet?
the result of an experiment
The project is beginning to show results.
a coach who knows how to get results from his players
job losses resulting from changes in production
When water levels rise, flooding results.
It was a large explosion and the resulting damage was extensive.
The cyclone has resulted in many thousands of deaths.
These policies resulted in many elderly people suffering hardship.
the growing economic crisis and resultant unemployment
to resume talks/negotiations
She resumed her career after an interval of six years.
The noise resumed, louder than before.
He got back in the car and resumed driving.
a brief résumé of events so far
We are hoping for an early resumption of peace talks.
The submarine resurfaced.
(figurative) All the old hostilities resurfaced when they met again.
He had a heart attack and all attempts to resuscitate him failed.
(figurative) efforts to resuscitate the economy
frantic attempts at resuscitation
The recommended retail price is £9.99.
department stores and other retail outlets
the retail trade
to buy/sell retail (= in a shop/store)
The firm manufactures and retails its own range of sportswear.
The book retails at £14.95.
She retailed the neighbours' activities with relish.
I was ready for a little retail therapy.
to retaliate against an attack
The boy hit his sister, who retaliated by kicking him.
retaliatory action
retaliation against UN workers
The shooting may have been in retaliation for the arrest of the terrorist suspects.
career opportunities in retailing
to retain your independence
He struggled to retain control of the situation.
The house retains much of its original charm.
She retained her tennis title for the third year.
a soil that retains moisture
This information is no longer retained within the computer's main memory.
(figurative) She has a good memory and finds it easy to retain facts.
a retaining fee
to retain the services of a lawyer
The agency will pay you a monthly retainer.
a retaining wall (= one that keeps the earth or water behind it in position)
Government forces moved in to retake the city.
(figurative) Moore fought back to retake the lead later in the race.
The progression of the disease can be retarded by early surgery.
Many factors can lead to growth retardation in unborn babies.
The smell made her retch.
The company needs to improve its training and retention of staff.
Eating too much salt can cause fluid retention.
Visual material aids the retention of information.
Subjects were retested one month later.
to rethink a plan
a radical rethink of company policy
She was shy and reticent.
He was extremely reticent about his personal life.
She was forced to retire early from teaching because of ill health.
The company's official retiring age is 65.
My dream is to retire to a villa in France.
He has no plans to retire as editor of the magazine.
She was retired on medical grounds.
She fell badly, spraining her ankle, and had to retire.
He retired hurt in the first five minutes of the game.
The jury retired to consider the evidence.
After dinner he likes to retire to his study.
I retired late that evening.
He retired twelve batters in a row.
a retired doctor
Dad is retired now.
At 60, he was now approaching retirement.
Susan is going to take early retirement (= retire before the usual age).
retirement age
a retirement pension
to provide for retirement
We all wish you a long and happy retirement.
Up to a third of one's life is now being spent in retirement.
He announced his retirement from football.
She came out of retirement to win two gold medals at the championships.
a quiet, retiring man
'Don't be ridiculous!' Pat retorted angrily.
Sam retorted that it was my fault as much as his.
She bit back (= stopped herself from making) a sharp retort.
She turned around and began to retrace her steps towards the house.
They are hoping to retrace the epic voyage of Christopher Columbus.
Detectives are trying to retrace her movements on the night she disappeared.
He made a false confession which he later retracted.
They tried to persuade me to retract my words.
to retract an offer
The animal retracted into its shell.
The undercarriage was fully retracted.
a knife with a retractable blade
He demanded a full retraction of the allegations against him.
the retraction of a cat's claws
She retrained as a teacher.
Staff have been retrained to use the new technology.
The army was forced to retreat after suffering heavy losses.
We retreated back down the mountain.
He watched her retreating figure.
The flood waters slowly retreated.
The government had retreated from its pledge to reduce class sizes.
Bored with the conversation, she retreated to her bedroom.
(figurative) He retreated into a world of fantasy.
Share prices retreated 45p to 538p.
Napoleon's retreat from Moscow
The army was in full retreat (= retreating very quickly).
to sound the retreat (= to give a loud signal for an army to move away)
Is watching television a retreat from reality?
The Senator made an embarrassing retreat from his earlier position.
a country retreat
He went into retreat and tried to resolve the conflicts within himself.
to go on a Buddhist retreat
She bent to retrieve her comb from the floor.
The police have managed to retrieve some of the stolen money.
to retrieve information from the database
The program allows you to retrieve items quickly by searching under a keyword.
You can only retrieve the situation by apologizing.
a period of retrenchment
People are seeking retribution for the latest terrorist outrages.
fear of divine retribution (= punishment from God)
retributive justice
The ship was buried, beyond retrieval, at the bottom of the sea.
(figurative) By then the situation was beyond retrieval (= impossible to put right).
methods of information retrieval
the current Seventies retro trend
retrograde
retrospectively
The ruling should be applied retroactively.
Voice recorders were retrofitted into planes already in service.
They retrofitted the plane with improved seating.
The closure of the factory is a retrograde step.
retrospective legislation
retrospective pay awards
She wrote retrospectively about her childhood.
The new rule will be applied retrospectively.
She's returning to Australia tomorrow after six months in Europe.
I returned from work to find the house empty.
When did she return home from the trip?
We had to return the hairdryer to the store because it was faulty.
I must return some books to the library.
Don't forget to return my pen!
I returned the letter unopened.
The following day the pain returned.
Her suspicions returned when things started going missing again.
He returns to this topic later in the report.
She looked up briefly then returned to her sewing.
The doctor may allow her to return to work next week.
Train services have returned to normal after the strike.
to return a favour/greeting/stare
She phoned him several times but he was too busy to return her call.
It's time we returned their invitation (= invite them to sth as they invited us to sth first).
He did not return her love.
'You were both wonderful!' 'So were you!' we said, returning the compliment.
to return fire (= to shoot at sb who is shooting at you)
to return a service/shot
The jury returned a verdict of not guilty.
to return a high rate of interest
Last year the company returned a loss of £157 million.
He was met by his brother on his return from Italy.
I saw the play on its return to Broadway.
on the return flight/journey/trip
We would appreciate the prompt return of books to the library.
The judge ordered the return of the child to his mother.
Write your return address (= the address that a reply should be sent to) on the back of the envelope.
the return of spring
a return of my doubts
his return to power
They appealed for a return to work (= after a strike).
a high rate of return on capital
farmers seeking to improve returns from their crops
census returns
election returns (= the number of votes for each candidate in an election)
'Brighton, please.' 'Single or return?'
A return is cheaper than two singles.
the return fare to London
To exit this option, press return.
a powerful return of serve
This hotel is worth a return visit.
The US president is making a return visit to Moscow.
A returnable deposit is payable on arrival.
The application form is returnable not later than 7th June.
the reunification of Germany
a family reunion
the school's annual reunion
a reunion of the class of '85
an emotional reunion between mother and son
Christmas is a time of reunion.
the reunion of the Church of England with the Church of Rome
Last night she was reunited with her children.
The family was reunited after the war.
There have been rumours that the band will reunite for a world tour.
As leader, his main aim is to reunite the party.
reusable plastic bottles
Please reuse your envelopes.
The taxi driver revved up his engine.
I could hear the car revving outside.
4 000 revs per minute
The needle on the rev counter soared.
Rev. Jesse Jackson
The yen is to be revalued.
the revaluation of the pound
to reveal a secret
Details of the murder were revealed by the local paper.
The report reveals (that) the company made a loss of £20 million last year.
It was revealed that important evidence had been suppressed.
Officers could not reveal how he died.
Salted peanuts were recently revealed to be the nation's favourite snack.
He laughed, revealing a line of white teeth.
The door opened to reveal a cosy little room.
She crouched in the dark, too frightened to reveal herself.
The document provided a revealing insight into the government's priorities.
The answers the children gave were extremely revealing.
a revealing blouse
He spoke revealingly about his problems.
She was clearly revelling in all the attention.
Some people seem to revel in annoying others.
startling/sensational revelations about her private life
The company's financial problems followed the revelation of a major fraud scandal.
a revelatory insight
We could hear sounds of revelry from next door.
New Year revelries
He swore to take (his) revenge on his political enemies.
She is seeking revenge for the murder of her husband.
The bombing was in revenge for the assassination.
an act of revenge
revenge attacks/killings
The team wanted to get revenge for their defeat earlier in the season.
a shortfall in tax revenue
a slump in oil revenues
The company's annual revenues rose by 30%.
The poem conveys his deep reverence for nature.
the Reverend Charles Dodgson
Good morning, Reverend.
Her voice reverberated around the hall.
The hall reverberated with the sound of music and dancing.
Repercussions of the case continue to reverberate through the financial world.
His name was always mentioned in almost reverential tones.
She lowered her voice reverentially.
She was jolted out of her reverie as the door opened.
a reversible jacket
Is the trend towards privatization reversible?
reversible kidney failure
a complete/dramatic/sudden reversal of policy
the reversal of a decision
The government suffered a total reversal of fortune(s) last week.
the team's recent reversal
The company's financial problems were only a temporary reversal.
It's a complete role reversal/reversal of roles (= for example when a child cares for a parent).
to reverse a procedure/process/trend
The government has failed to reverse the economic decline.
It is sometimes possible to arrest or reverse the disease.
The Court of Appeal reversed the decision.
Writing is reversed in a mirror.
You should reverse the order of these pages.
It felt as if we had reversed our roles of parent and child.
She used to work for me, but our situations are now reversed.
He has reversed himself on a dozen issues.
He reversed around the corner.
She reversed into a parking space.
Caution! This truck is reversing.
Now reverse the car.
I want to reverse the charges, please.
This problem is the reverse of the previous one.
Although I expected to enjoy living in the country, in fact the reverse is true.
In the south, the reverse applies.
It wasn't easy to persuade her to come— quite the reverse.
Put the car in/into reverse.
Property values have suffered another reverse.
a damaging political reverse
to travel in the reverse direction
The winners were announced in reverse order (= the person in the lowest place was announced first).
The experiment had the reverse effect to what was intended.
Iron the garment on the reverse side.
I didn't have any money so I had to call reverse-charge.
a reversion to traditional farming methods
the reversion of Hong Kong to China
Excellent openings—kindly revert with your updated CV.
After her divorce she reverted to her maiden name.
His manner seems to have reverted to normal.
Try not to revert to your old eating habits.
So, to revert to your earlier question…
The conversation kept reverting to the events of March 6th.
the government's review of its education policy
The case is subject to judicial review.
His parole application is up for review next week.
The terms of the contract are under review.
a pay/salary review
a review body/date/panel
a book review
the reviews (page) in the papers
good/bad/mixed/rave reviews in the national press
He submitted his latest novel for review.
a review of customer complaints
to publish a review of recent cancer research
to review the evidence
The government will review the situation later in the year.
to review your failures and triumphs
She had been reviewing the previous week on her way home.
The play was reviewed in the national newspapers.
I can see I will have to revise my opinions of his abilities now.
The government may need to revise its policy in the light of this report.
a revised edition of a textbook
I'll prepare a revised estimate for you.
We may have to revise this figure upwards.
I spent the weekend revising for my exam.
I can't come out tonight. I have to revise.
I'm revising Geography today.
He made some minor revisions to the report before printing it out.
a system in need of revision
a revision of trading standards
Have you started your revision yet?
bourgeois revisionists
revisionist historians
It's an idea that may be worth revisiting at a later date.
measures to revitalize the inner cities
the revitalization of the steel industry
the revival of trade
an economic revival
a revival of interest in folk music
a religious revival
Jazz is enjoying a revival.
a revival of Peter Shaffer's 'Equus'
revivalism in architecture
revivalist movements
a revivalist preacher
The flowers soon revived in water.
The economy is beginning to revive.
The paramedics couldn't revive her.
This movie is intended to revive her flagging career.
This quaint custom should be revived.
She has been trying to revive the debate over equal pay.
This 1930s musical is being revived at the National Theatre.
the revocation of planning permission
the Peasants' Revolt of 1381
to lead/stage a revolt
The army quickly crushed the revolt.
the biggest back-bench revolt this government has ever seen
Attempts to negotiate peace ended in armed revolt.
(formal) The people rose in revolt.
The peasants threatened to revolt.
Finally the people revolted against the military dictatorship.
Teenagers often revolt against parental discipline.
All the violence in the movie revolted me.
The way he ate his food revolted me.
a revolting smell
a revolting little man
revoltingly ugly
a socialist revolution
the outbreak of the French Revolution in 1789
to start a revolution
a country on the brink of revolution
a cultural/social/scientific, etc. revolution
A revolution in information technology is taking place.
the revolution of the earth around the sun
rotating at 300 revolutions per minute
a revolutionary leader
revolutionary uprisings
a revolutionary idea
a time of rapid and revolutionary change
socialist revolutionaries
Aerial photography has revolutionized the study of archaeology.
The fan revolved slowly.
The earth revolves on its axis.
The earth revolves around the sun.
His whole life revolves around surfing.
She thinks that the world revolves around her.
The discussion revolved around the question of changing the club's name.
a revolving chair
The theatre has a revolving stage.
The company became a revolving-door workplace.
She felt a deep sense of revulsion at the violence.
I started to feel a revulsion against their decadent lifestyle.
Most people viewed the bombings with revulsion.
a financial reward
a reward for good behaviour
You deserve a reward for being so helpful.
Winning the match was just reward for the effort the team had made.
The company is now reaping the rewards of their investments.
A £100 reward has been offered for the return of the necklace.
She was rewarded for her efforts with a cash bonus.
He rewarded us handsomely (= with a lot of money) for helping him.
She started singing to the baby and was rewarded with a smile.
Our patience was finally rewarded.
a rewarding experience/job
Teaching is not very financially rewarding (= is not very well paid).
There is a proposal for the rewilding of the islands.
Rewilding represents a desire to return to the state in which humans existed before the advent of civilization.
The movie is a reworking of the Frankenstein story.
I intend to rewrite the story for younger children.
This essay will have to be completely rewritten.
an attempt to rewrite history (= to present historical events in a way that shows or proves what you want them to)
a rewritable CD
Rex v Jones
Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsodies
the rhetoric of political slogans
empty rhetoric
'Don't you care what I do?' he asked, but it was a rhetorical question.
the use of rhetorical devices such as metaphor and irony
'Do you think I'm stupid?' she asked rhetorically.
a rhetorically structured essay
rheumatic pains
black/white rhino
rhino horn
rhubarb pie
Can you think of a rhyme for 'beauty'?
children's rhymes and stories
a poem written in rhyme
the poet's use of rhyme
'Though' rhymes with 'low'.
'Tough' and 'through' don't rhyme.
rhyming couplets
You can rhyme 'girl' with 'curl'.
I prefer poems that rhyme.
to dance to the rhythm of the music
music with a fast/slow/steady rhythm
jazz rhythms
He can't seem to play in rhythm.
The boat rocked up and down in rhythm with the sea.
the rhythm of her breathing
a dancer with a natural sense of rhythm (= the ability to move in time to a fixed beat)
the rhythm of the seasons
biological/body rhythms
music with a fast, rhythmic beat
the rhythmic ticking of the clock
a broken/bruised/cracked rib
Stop poking me in the ribs!
a rib cotton sweater
a ribbed sweater
a present tied with yellow ribbon
lengths of velvet ribbon
She was wearing two blue silk ribbons in her hair.
The road was a ribbon of moonlight.
a grain of rice
boiled/steamed/fried rice
long-/short-grain rice
brown rice (= without its outer covering removed)
rice paddies (= rice fields)
one of the richest women in the world
Nobody gets rich from writing nowadays.
(slang) to be filthy/stinking (= extremely) rich
It's a favourite resort for the rich and famous.
the richest countries/economies/nations
the region's rich history and culture
She leads a rich and varied life.
Oranges are rich in vitamin C.
The area is rich in wildlife.
His novels are a rich source of material for the movie industry.
iron-rich rocks
a rich creamy sauce
a rich chocolate cake
a rich well-drained soil
rich dark reds
The rooms were decorated with rich fabrics.
Me? Lazy? That's rich, coming from you!
a career that brought him fame and riches
material riches
a richly decorated room
a richly flavoured sauce
The polished floor glowed richly.
She was richly rewarded for all her hard work.
richly deserved success
richly earned respect
richly varied countryside
a richly atmospheric novel
the richness and variety of marine life
an earthquake measuring 7.3 on the Richter scale
a rickety chair
The bullet ricocheted off a nearby wall.
A woman protester was killed by a ricochet.
the ricochet of bricks and bottles off police riot shields
Are you trying to say you want rid of me?
Further measures will be taken to rid our streets of crime.
to rid yourself of guilt
He wanted to rid himself of the burden of the secret.
a disease-ridden slum
a class-ridden society
She was guilt-ridden at the way she had treated him.
She was ridden with guilt.
Stop talking in riddles (= saying things that are confusing) —say what you mean.
to solve the riddle of the Sphinx
the riddle of how the baby died
The car was riddled with bullets.
I learnt to ride as a child.
They rode along narrow country lanes.
He was riding on a large black horse.
She had never ridden a horse before.
He's ridden six winners so far this year (= in horse racing).
How often do you go riding?
The boys were riding their bikes around the streets.
He rode a Harley Davidson.
The ground there is too rough to ride over.
I walked back while the others rode in the car.
(NAmE) to ride the subway/an elevator, etc.
She rode the bus to school every day.
We watched the balloon riding high above the fields.
surfers riding the waves
We rode the mountain trails.
Why is everybody riding me today?
Schools are riding a wave of renewed public interest.
My whole future is riding on this interview.
Short skirts tend to ride up when you sit down.
a train ride through beautiful countryside
It's a ten-minute bus ride from here to town.
Steve gave me a ride on his motorbike.
We went for a ride on our bikes.
a bike ride
She hitched a ride to the station.
We managed to get a ride into town when we missed the bus.
a smooth/comfortable/bumpy, etc. ride
(figurative) The new legislation faces a bumpy ride (= will meet with opposition and difficulties).
a pony ride
The kids had a ride on an elephant at the zoo.
He goes for a ride most mornings.
The rides are free.
a roller coaster ride
It's not a pleasant feeling to discover you've been taken for a ride by someone you trusted.
Three riders (= people riding horses) were approaching.
horses and their riders
She's an experienced rider.
a motorcycle dispatch rider
walking along the ridge
the north-east ridge of the Matterhorn
The ridges on the soles of my boots stopped me from slipping.
the ridge of the roof
I'm taking riding lessons.
riding boots
(BrE) to go riding
(NAmE) to go horseback riding
It is a country where corruption is rife.
Rumours are rife that he is going to resign.
Los Angeles is rife with gossip about the stars' private lives.
He was riffling through the papers on his desk.
to riffle the pages of a book
She rifled through her clothes for something suitable to wear.
His wallet had been rifled.
The rift within the party deepened.
Efforts to heal the rift between the two countries have failed.
He said the election had been rigged.
to rig the market (= to cause an artificial rise or fall in prices, in order to make a profit)
The lights had been rigged (up) but not yet tested.
The car had been rigged with about 300 lbs of explosive.
I was accepted for the job and rigged out in a uniform.
We managed to rig up a shelter for the night.
an oil rig
a CB radio rig
Where are you going in that rig-out?
vote rigging
You were quite right to criticize him.
Is it ever right to kill?
It seems only right to warn you of the risk.
I hope we're doing the right thing.
Did you get the answer right?
'What's the right time?' '10.37.'
'David, isn't it?' 'Yes, that's right.'
(informal) It was Monday you went to see Angie, right?
Let me get this right (= understand correctly) —you want us to do an extra ten hours' work for no extra pay?
Have you got the right money (= the exact amount) for the bus fare?
Is this the right way to the beach?
You're not holding it the right way up.
Are you sure you've got that on the right way round?
Next time we'll get it right.
He's the right man for the job.
I'm glad you split up. She wasn't right for you.
I was waiting for the right moment to ask him.
She knows all the right people (= important people, for example those who can help her career).
His success was down to being in the right place at the right time (= being able to take opportunities when they came).
She was right about Tom having no money.
You're right to be cautious.
'It's not easy.' 'Yeah, you're right.'
Am I right in thinking we've met before?
I don't feel quite right today (= I feel ill/sick).
That sausage doesn't smell right.
Things aren't right between her parents.
If only I could have helped put matters right.
He's not quite right in the head (= not mentally normal).
my right eye
Keep on the right side of the road.
Take a right turn at the intersection.
You made a right mess of that!
I felt a right idiot.
the rightness (= justice) of their cause
the rightness of his decision
I dropped my toast, but luckily it fell right side up.
'We need to stick together.' 'Too right!'
'I'll have to do it again.' 'Too right you will.'
Lee was standing right behind her.
The wind was right in our faces.
I'm right behind you on this one (= I am supporting you).
The bus came right on time.
The car spun right off the track.
I'm right out of ideas.
She kept right on swimming until she reached the other side.
I'll be right back.
I'll be right with you (= I am coming very soon).
You guessed right.
Nothing's going right for me today.
He did it right.
Did I spell your name right?
Is your name spelled correctly?
They are rightly proud of their children.
As you rightly say, we have a serious problem.
Turn right at the end of the street.
He's not in the office right now.
Do it right now!
You needn't worry about money—I'll see you right.
She doesn't understand the difference between right and wrong.
You did right to tell me about it.
They both had some right on their side.
He wouldn't apologize. He knew he was in the right (= had justice on his side).
It was difficult to establish the rights and wrongs (= the true facts) of the matter.
Everyone has a right to a fair trial.
You have no right to stop me from going in there.
What gives you the right to do that?
She had every right to be angry.
You're quite within your rights to ask for your money back.
By rights (= if justice were done) half the money should be mine.
There is no right of appeal against the decision.
Education is provided by the state as of right (= everyone has a right to it).
The property belongs to her by right.
They had fought hard for equal rights.
He sold the rights for $2 million.
all rights reserved (= protected or kept for the owners of the book, film/movie, etc.)
Take the first street on the right.
She seated me on her right.
Take the first right, then the second left.
to make a right
(NAmE, informal) to hang a right
The Right in British politics is represented by the Conservative Party.
He's on the right of the Labour Party.
We stayed up all night, setting the world to rights.
They learnt to right a capsized canoe.
At last the plane righted itself and flew on.
Righting the economy will demand major cuts in expenditure.
'You may find it hurts a little at first.' 'Right.'
'Barry's here.' 'Oh, right.'
'I'll have a whisky and soda.' ' Right you are, sir.'
Right! Let's get going.
So that's twenty of each sort, right?
And I didn't think any more of it, right, but Mum says I should see a doctor.
'I won't be late tonight.' ' Yeah, right.'
Place the table at right angles/at a right angle to the wall.
Private property—no right of way.
I had right of way at the junction.
Whose right of way is it?
He is on the right wing of the party.
on the right-hand side of the road
the top right-hand corner of the screen
a right-hand glove
the President's right-hand man
right-on middle-class intellectuals
right-wing policies
She is a prominent Tory right-winger.
a righteous God
righteous anger/indignation, etc.
The stolen car was returned to its rightful owner.
She was only claiming what was rightfully hers.
The school was rightly proud of the excellent exam results.
He was proud of his beautiful house, and rightly so.
Quite rightly, the environment is of great concern.
Rightly or wrongly, many older people are afraid of violence in the streets.
As she rightly pointed out, the illness can affect adults as well as children.
I can't rightly say what happened.
I don't rightly know where he's gone.
If I remember rightly, there's a train at six o'clock.
a rightward movement
a rightward shift in voting patterns
The curriculum was too narrow and too rigid.
His rigid adherence to the rules made him unpopular.
rigid attitudes
a rigid support for the tent
She sat upright, her body rigid with fear.
(figurative) I was bored rigid (= extremely bored).
the rigidity of the law on this issue
the rigidity of the metal bar
The speed limit must be rigidly enforced.
She stared rigidly ahead.
I couldn't face the whole rigmarole of getting a work permit again.
a rigorous analysis
The work failed to meet their rigorous standards.
The country's press is rigorously controlled.
academic/intellectual/scientific, etc. rigour
This crime must be treated with the full rigour of the law.
The plants were unable to withstand the rigours of a harsh winter.
Nothing ever seemed to rile him.
He looked at them over the rim of his glass.
The rims of her eyes were red with crying.
spectacles with gold rims
gold-rimmed spectacles
red-rimmed eyes (= for example, from crying)
lemon rind
a gold ring
A diamond glittered on her ring finger (= the finger next to the little finger, especially on the left hand).
a key ring
curtain rings
onion rings
She had dark rings around her eyes from lack of sleep.
The children sat on the floor in a ring.
a boxing ring
a circus ring
to turn off the gas ring
a spy ring
a drugs ring
Thousands of demonstrators ringed the building.
Ring the correct answer in pencil.
I'll ring you up later.
He rang up the police station.
When is the best time to ring New York?
David rang up while you were out.
He said he was ringing from London.
I'm ringing about your advertisement in the paper.
She rang to say she'd be late.
Could you ring for a cab?
Will you answer the telephone if it rings?
Someone was ringing the doorbell.
The church bells rang.
Just ring for the nurse (= attract the nurse's attention by ringing a bell) if you need her.
The house rang with children's laughter.
Applause rang through the hall.
His words rang with pride.
The music was so loud it made my ears ring.
He isn't here now—could you ring back later?
I'll ask Simon to ring you back when he gets in.
He rang off before I could explain.
A number of shots rang out.
I rang round all the travel agents in the area.
Reception just rang through to say my visitor has arrived.
She rang up all the items on the till.
The company rang up sales of $166 million last year.
There was a ring at the door.
He gave a couple of loud rings on the doorbell.
the ring of horse's hooves on the cobblestones
His explanation has a ring of truth about it.
Her protestation of innocence had a hollow ring to it (= did not sound sincere).
The story had a familiar ring to it (= as if I had heard it before).
All employees can access the parts of the Intranet that are not ring-fenced.
The government has promised to put a ring fence around funding for education.
a ringed finger
a ringed plover
a ringing endorsement of her leadership
There was an unpleasant ringing in my ears.
According to law, a doctor must be present at the ringside.
a ringside seat
a rinky-dink rhinestone necklace
a rinky-dink little town
Rinse the cooked pasta with boiling water.
She rinsed the mud from her hands.
I wanted to rinse the taste out of my mouth.
Rinse the cup out before use.
I gave the glass a rinse.
Fabric conditioner is added during the final rinse.
a blue rinse
One prison guard was killed when a riot broke out in the jail.
food/race riots
The garden was a riot of colour.
They let their kids run riot.
Rioters set fire to parked cars.
Rioting broke out in the capital.
riotous behaviour
The organizers of the march were charged with assault and riotous assembly.
a riotous party
riotous laughter
riotously funny
I ripped my jeans on the fence.
The flags had been ripped in two.
I heard the tent rip.
She ripped the letter open.
He ripped off his tie.
The carpet had been ripped from the stairs.
A bullet ripped into his shoulder.
Tourists complain of being ripped off by local cab drivers.
Thieves broke in and ripped off five computers.
He ripped up the letter and threw it in the fire.
$70 for a T-shirt! What a rip-off!
The single is a rip-off of a 70s hit.
a rip-roaring celebration
This land is ripe for development.
The conditions were ripe for social change.
Reforms were promised when the time was ripe.
a witty riposte
The US delivered an early riposte to the air attack.
The air was so still that there was hardly a ripple on the pond's surface.
ripples of sand
a ripple of applause/laughter
A ripple of fear passed through him.
The announcement sent a ripple of excitement through the crowd.
The sea rippled and sparkled.
rippling muscles
The wind rippled the wheat in the fields.
A gasp rippled through the crowd.
His resignation will have a ripple effect on the whole department.
The industry is feeling the effects of recent price rises.
There has been a sharp rise in the number of people out of work.
I'm going to ask for a rise.
He criticized the huge pay rises awarded to industry bosses.
the rise of fascism in Europe
the rise and fall of the British Empire
her meteoric rise to power
She watched the gentle rise and fall of his chest as he slept.
The church was built at the top of a small rise.
Smoke was rising from the chimney.
The river has risen (by) several metres.
He was accustomed to rising (= getting out of bed) early.
They rose from the table.
She rose to her feet.
The sun rises in the east.
The House (= members of the House of Commons) rose at 10 p.m.
rising fuel bills
The price of gas rose.
Gas rose in price.
Unemployment rose (by) 3%.
Air pollution has risen above an acceptable level.
a rising young politician
She rose to power in the 70s.
He rose to the rank of general.
She rose through the ranks to become managing director.
Her voice rose angrily.
He felt anger rising inside him.
Her spirits rose (= she felt happier) at the news.
The hair on the back of my neck rose when I heard the scream.
The peasants rose in revolt.
He called on the people to rise up against the invaders.
Mountains rose in the distance.
The ground rose steeply all around.
The Thames rises in the Cotswold hills.
to rise from the dead
(figurative) Can a new party rise from the ashes of the old one?
She had the courage and determination to rise above her physical disability.
I try to rise above prejudice.
His work rarely rises above the mediocre.
Luckily, my mother rose to the occasion.
He was determined to rise to the challenge.
I refuse to rise to that sort of comment.
As soon as I mentioned money he rose to the bait.
Smoking can increase the risk of developing heart disease.
Patients should be made aware of the risks involved with this treatment.
There is still a risk that the whole deal will fall through.
The chemicals pose little risk (= are not dangerous) to human health.
a calculated risk (= one that you think is small compared with the possible benefits)
Any business venture contains an element of risk.
We could probably trust her with the information but it's just not worth the risk.
The group was considered to be a risk to national security.
a major health/fire risk
With five previous claims, he's now a bad insurance risk.
People who are overweight run a risk of a heart attack or stroke.
We don't want to run the risk of losing their business.
Investment is all about running risks.
That's a risk I'm not prepared to take.
You have no right to take risks with other people's lives.
He risked his life to save her.
She was risking her own and her children's health.
He risked all his money on a game of cards.
There was no choice. If they stayed there, they risked death.
They knew they risked being arrested.
He risked a glance at her furious face.
It was a difficult decision but we decided to risk it.
We've been advised not to risk travelling in these conditions.
The employer has an obligation to carry out a risk assessment.
We live in a risk-averse culture.
In business you cannot be innovative and risk-averse at the same time.
Life as an aid worker can be a risky business (= dangerous).
a risky investment
It's far too risky to generalize from one set of results.
funeral rites
initiation rites (= performed when a new member joins a secret society)
religious rituals
She objects to the ritual of organized religion.
Sunday lunch with the in-laws has become something of a ritual.
ritual chanting
ritual expressions of sympathy
The goat was ritually slaughtered.
ritualized expressions of grief
a ritualistic act of worship
The two teams have always been rivals.
The Japanese are our biggest economic rivals.
This latest design has no rivals (= it is easily the best design available).
a rival bid/claim/offer
fighting between rival groups
He was shot by a member of a rival gang.
You will find scenery to rival anything you can see in the Alps.
a fierce rivalry for world supremacy
There is a certain amount of friendly rivalry between the teams.
political rivalries
sibling rivalry (= between brothers and sisters)
a party riven by internal disputes
the River Thames
the Hudson River
on the banks of the river (= the ground at the side of a river)
to travel up/down river (= in the opposite direction to/in the same direction as the way in which the river is flowing)
the mouth of the river (= where it enters the sea/ocean)
Can we swim in the river?
a boat on the river
They have a house on the river (= beside it).
Rivers of molten lava flowed down the mountain.
a dried-up river bed
on the riverbank
a riverside path
a walk by the riverside
I was absolutely riveted by her story.
My eyes were riveted on the figure lying in the road.
The steel plates were riveted together.
the French Riviera
The apartments were infested with rats and roaches.
a main/major/minor road
a country/mountain road
They live just along/up/down the road (= further on the same road).
The house is on a very busy road.
He was walking along the road when he was attacked.
It takes about five hours by road (= driving).
It would be better to transport the goods by rail rather than by road.
Take the first road on the left and then follow the signs.
We parked on a side road.
road accidents/safety/users
35 York Road
a street map of London
Oxford Street
Mile End Road
the record store in the High Street
high street shops
to be on the road to recovery
We have discussed privatization, but we would prefer not to go down that particular road.
We parked by the roadside.
a roadside cafe
The sheep are allowed to roam freely on this land.
to roam the countryside/the streets, etc.
His gaze roamed over her.
Her eyes roamed the room.
international roaming charges
a strawberry roan (= with a mixture of brown and grey hair that looks pink)
We heard a lion roar.
The gun roared deafeningly.
The engine roared to life (= started noisily).
The crowd roared.
The fans roared (out) their approval.
'Stand back,' he roared.
He looked so funny, we all roared.
It made them roar with laughter.
She put her foot down and the car roared away.
He swept to victory in the final of the championship.
His speech was greeted by a roar of applause.
roars of laughter
I could barely hear above the roar of traffic.
All we could hear was the sound of roaring water.
to roast a chicken
the smell of roasting meat
roasted chestnuts
She could feel her skin beginning to roast.
the Sunday roast
a hot dog roast
roast chicken
a roasting dish
a roasting hot day
to rob a bank
The tomb had been robbed of its treasures.
A last-minute goal robbed the team of victory.
He had been robbed of his dignity.
a bank robber
armed robbery (= using a gun, knife, etc.)
There has been a spate of robberies in the area recently.
coronation robes
cardinals in scarlet robes
a robed choir
The priests were robed in black.
These cars are built by robots.
Turn left at the first robot.
She was almost 90, but still very robust.
a robust piece of equipment
robust economic growth
It was a typically robust performance by the Foreign Secretary.
The furniture was robustly constructed.
They defended their policies robustly.
They drilled through several layers of rock to reach the oil.
a cave with striking rock formations (= shapes made naturally from rock)
The tunnel was blasted out of solid rock.
volcanic/igneous/sedimentary, etc. rocks
the Rock of Gibraltar
The ship crashed into the infamous Sker Point rocks and broke into three pieces.
They clambered over the rocks at the foot of the cliff.
The sign said 'Danger: falling rocks'.
Protesters pelted the soldiers with rocks.
punk rock
a rock band/star
a stick of Brighton rock
He is my rock.
The boat rocked from side to side in the waves.
She was rocking backwards and forwards in her seat.
He rocked the baby gently in his arms.
The country was rocked by a series of political scandals.
The news rocked the world.
The house rocked when the bomb exploded.
The town was rocked by an earthquake.
(figurative) The scandal rocked the government (= made the situation difficult for it).
Her new movie rocks!
How to rock the retro look.
She rocked a red leather skirt at the award ceremony.
Prices hit rock bottom.
The marriage had reached rock bottom.
rock-bottom prices
to go rock climbing
When I invested my money with the company I was told it was as safe as the Rock of Gibraltar.
The support for the party was rock solid.
a space rocket
The rocket was launched in 2007.
The idea took off like a rocket (= it immediately became popular).
a rocket attack
rocketing prices
Unemployment has rocketed up again.
The total has rocketed from 376 to 532.
The car rocketed out of a side street.
The band rocketed to stardom with their first single.
There are already signs of rocket-fuelled growth.
a rocky coastline
rocky soil
a rocky marriage
fishing with rod and line
There used to be a saying: 'Spare the rod and spoil the child.'
cod's roe
He did the funniest dance I've ever seen. ROFL.
He's a bit of a rogue, but very charming.
a rogues' gallery (= a collection of pictures of criminals)
a rogue gene
a rogue police officer
a roguish smile
(figurative) The collapse of the mortgage sector has roiled markets.
the roiling sea
Activists staged a rail roko to protest against the minister's decision.
the role of the teacher in the classroom
She refused to take on the traditional woman's role.
In many marriages there has been a complete role reversal (= change of roles) with the man staying at home and the woman going out to work.
It is one of the greatest roles she has played.
Who is in the leading role (= the most important one)?
the role of diet in preventing disease
The media play a major role in influencing people's opinions.
a key/vital role
Role-play allows students to practise language in a safe situation.
Wallpaper is sold in rolls.
a roll of mints
Soup and a roll: £3.50
a chicken/cheese, etc. roll (= filled with chicken/cheese, etc.)
The kittens were enjoying a roll in the sunshine.
a forward/backward roll
Rolls of fat hung over his belt.
the electoral roll (= a list of all the people who can vote in an election)
The chairman called/took the roll (= called out the names on a list to check that everyone was present).
the distant roll of thunder
a drum roll
The order of play is decided by the roll of a dice.
The ball rolled down the hill.
We watched the waves rolling onto the beach.
Delivery men were rolling barrels across the yard.
a dog rolling in the mud
Her eyes rolled.
She rolled her eyes upwards (= to show surprise or disapproval).
He was rolling a pencil between his fingers.
She rolled over to let the sun brown her back.
He rolled onto his back.
I rolled the baby over onto its stomach.
to roll a dice/die (= in a game)
(especially NAmE) She rolled her car in a 100 mph crash.
The car began to roll back down the hill.
The traffic rolled slowly forwards.
Mist was rolling in from the sea.
He rolled the trolley across the room.
I rolled the string into a ball.
We rolled up the carpet.
a rolled-up newspaper
I always roll my own (= make my own cigarettes).
The hedgehog rolled up into a ball.
Roll up your sleeves.
She rolled her jeans to her knees.
Roll the pastry on a floured surface.
Roll the meat in the breadcrumbs.
He rolled himself up in the blanket.
He walked with a rolling gait.
The ship was rolling heavily to and fro.
rolling drums
Thunder rolled.
to roll your r's (= by letting your tongue vibrate with each 'r' sound)
They had to repeat the scene because the cameras weren't rolling.
Roll the cameras!
Banks are several businesses rolled into one.
Roll on Friday!
It's not a name that exactly trips off the tongue, is it?
to roll back the frontiers of space
to roll back inflation
He rolled down his car window and started shouting at them.
to roll down your sleeves
Offers of help are still rolling in.
Steve rolled in around lunchtime.
Roll out the pastry.
The new model is to be rolled out in July.
We can't expect them to just roll over for us.
They rolled us over in the replay.
The bank refused to roll over the debt.
Bill finally rolled up two hours late.
Roll up! Roll up!(= used to invite people who are passing to form an audience)
She rolled up all the windows.
Roll call will be at 7 a.m.
The guest list reads like a roll call of the nation's heroes.
a roll-on deodorant
a roll-on roll-off car ferry
the heavy steel rollers under the conveyor belt
Flatten the surface of the grass with a roller.
a paint roller
We'll need to move the piano on rollers.
Huge Atlantic rollers crashed onto the rocks.
heated rollers
Her hair was in rollers.
a roller-coaster ride
The last few weeks have been a real roller coaster.
a pair of roller skates
a rollicking comedy
He gave us both a rollicking.
a rolling programme of reform
a rollover jackpot
This is the Rolls-Royce of canoes.
the Roma population of eastern Europe
a Roman road/temple/villa
Roman Britain
Definitions in this dictionary are printed in roman type.
Henry VIII
© BBC MMIX (2009)
a holiday romance
They had a whirlwind romance.
Spring is here and romance is in the air.
How can you put the romance back into your marriage?
the romance of travel
She's a compulsive reader of romances.
medieval romances
Romano-British pottery
romantic stories/fiction/comedy
I'm not interested in a romantic relationship.
Why don't you ever give me flowers? I wish you'd be more romantic.
romantic music
romantic mountain scenery
a romantic view of life
When I was younger, I had romantic ideas of becoming a writer.
the Romantic movement
Keats is one of the greatest Romantic poets.
to be romantically involved with sb
Their names have been linked romantically.
He talked romantically of the past and his youth.
an incurable romantic
He was a romantic at heart and longed for adventure.
romanticizing the past
a romanticized picture of parenthood
kids romping around in the snow
She romped through the exam questions.
politicians involved in sex romps with call girls
They won in a 5–1 romp.
a flat/sloping roof
a thatched/slate, etc. roof
The corner of the classroom was damp where the roof had leaked.
Tim climbed on to the garage roof.
The roof of the car was not damaged in the accident.
flat-roofed buildings
There are various stores and restaurants all under one roof.
I don't think I can live under the same roof as you any longer.
I don't want her under my roof again.
The shopping centre is not roofed over.
Their cottage was roofed with green slate.
From the hill we looked out over the rooftops of Athens.
The prisoners staged a rooftop protest.
He was in love and wanted to shout it from the rooftops.
rooibos tea
He walked out of the room and slammed the door.
They were in the next room and we could hear every word they said.
a dining/living/sitting room
They had to sit in the waiting room for an hour.
I think Simon is in his room (= bedroom).
I don't want to watch television. I'll be in the other room (= a different room).
a three-roomed/three-room apartment
a double/single room
I'd like to book a room with a view of the lake.
She lets out rooms to students.
They lived in rooms in Kensington.
Is there enough room for me in the car?
There's room for one more at the table.
Do you have room for a computer on your desk?
Yes, there's plenty of room.
How can we make room for all the furniture?
I'll move the table—it takes up too much room.
Make sure you have plenty of room to sit comfortably.
He had to be certain. There could be no room for doubt.
There's some room for improvement in your work (= it is not as good as it could be).
It is important to give children room to think for themselves.
The whole room burst into applause.
She and Nancy roomed together at college.
He ordered coffee from room service.
Serve the wine at room temperature.
He announced his resignation to a roomful of reporters.
a surprisingly roomy car
deep spreading roots
I pulled the plant up by (= including) the roots.
Tree roots can cause damage to buildings.
root crops/vegetables (= plants whose roots you can eat, such as carrots)
hair that is blonde at the ends and dark at the roots
Money, or love of money, is said to be the root of all evil.
We have to get to the root of the problem.
What lies at the root of his troubles is a sense of insecurity.
What would you say was the root cause of the problem?
Flamenco may have its roots in Arabic music.
I'm proud of my Italian roots.
After 20 years in America, I still feel my roots are in England.
'Walk' is the root of 'walks', 'walked', 'walking' and 'walker'.
Fortunately, militarism failed to take root in Europe as a whole.
pigs rooting for food
Who's been rooting around in my desk?
'It must be here somewhere,' she said, rooting through the suitcase.
We're rooting for the Bulls.
Good luck—I'm rooting for you!
Embarrassment rooted her to the spot.
His problems are deeply rooted in his childhood experiences.
She was rooted to her chair.
Their life is rooted in Chicago now.
Racism is still deeply rooted in our society.
She had had a rootless childhood moving from town to town.
The rope broke and she fell 50 metres onto the rocks.
We tied his hands together with rope.
The anchor was attached to a length of rope.
Coils of rope lay on the quayside.
a rope of pearls
The thieves had roped the guard's feet together.
I roped the goat to a post.
I closed and roped the trunk.
Everyone was roped in to help with the show.
Ben was roped into making coffee for the whole team.
Police roped off the street to investigate the accident.
We spent the night in a ropy old tent.
a tax rort
He was an expert at rorting the system (= getting the best out of it for himself without actually doing anything illegal).
a bunch of red roses
a rose bush/garden
a climbing/rambling rose
a bottle of rosé
an excellent rosé
a rose-tinted vision of the world
He tends to view the world through rose-coloured spectacles.
The leaves formed a dark green rosette.
She had rosy cheeks.
The future is looking very rosy for our company.
She painted a rosy picture of their life together in Italy (= made it appear to be very good and perhaps better than it really was).
a duty roster
The driver was rostered for Sunday.
rotting leaves
The window frame had rotted away completely.
(figurative) prisoners thrown in jail and left to rot
Too much sugar will rot your teeth.
The wood must not get damp as rot can quickly result.
The rot set in last year when they reorganized the department.
The team should manage to stop the rot if they play well this week.
Don't talk such rot!
Dave organized a cleaning rota.
rotary motion
a rotary engine
Stay well away from the helicopter when its blades start to rotate.
winds rotating around the eye of a hurricane
Rotate the wheel through 180 degrees.
The EU presidency rotates among the members.
When I joined the company, I rotated around the different sections.
We rotate the night shift so no one has to do it all the time.
rotating parts
a rotating presidency
the daily rotation of the earth on its axis
This switch controls the number of rotations per minute.
crop rotation/the rotation of crops (= changing the crop that is grown on an area of land in order to protect the soil)
Wheat, maize and sugar beet are planted in rotation.
The committee is chaired by all the members in rotation.
to learn by rote
rote learning
rotor blades on a helicopter
the smell of rotten vegetables
The fruit is starting to go rotten.
rotten floorboards
I've had a rotten day!
What rotten luck!
She's a rotten singer.
The organization is rotten to the core.
She felt rotten.
I feel rotten about leaving them behind.
You can keep your rotten money!
She spoils the children rotten.
(BrE) He fancies you (something) rotten.
the rotund figure of Mr Stevens
rough ground
The skin on her hands was hard and rough.
Trim rough edges with a sharp knife.
a rough calculation/estimate of the cost
I've got a rough idea of where I want to go.
There were about 20 people there, at a rough guess.
a rough draft of a speech
a rough sketch
This watch is not designed for rough treatment.
They complained of rough handling by the guards.
rough kids
Don't try any rough stuff with me!
the roughest neighbourhood in the city
It was too rough to sail that night.
He's had a really rough time recently (= he's had a lot of problems).
We'll get someone in to do the rough work (= the hard physical work).
You look rough—are you OK?
I had a rough night (= I didn't sleep well).
rough wooden tables
a rough track
(BrE) rough paper for making notes on
a rough wine/voice
a gang of roughs
We can sleep on the beach. I don't mind roughing it for a night or two.
I've roughed out a few ideas.
He claimed that guards had roughed him up in prison.
Do they always play this rough?
the rough and tumble of politics
It was rough justice that they lost in the closing seconds of the game.
There was a certain amount of rough justice in his downfall.
a rough-and-ready guide to the education system
rough-hewn walls
(figurative) the rough-hewn features of his face
His voice roughened with every word.
Cold weather roughens your skin.
Quit roughhousing, you two!
Sales are up by roughly 10%.
We live roughly halfway between here and the coast.
They all left at roughly the same time.
Roughly speaking, we receive about fifty letters a week on the subject.
He pushed her roughly out of the way.
'What do you want?' she demanded roughly.
roughly plastered walls
a round plate
These glasses suit people with round faces.
The fruit are small and round.
Rugby isn't played with a round ball.
the discovery that the world is round
The child was watching it all with big round eyes (= showing interest).
a T-shirt with a round neck
the round green hills of Donegal
round brackets (= in writing)
She had a small mouth and round pink cheeks.
Make it a round figure—say forty dollars.
Two thousand is a nice round number—put that down.
Well, in round figures (= not giving the exact figures) we've spent twenty thousand so far.
His face had lost its boyish roundness.
Everybody joins hands and dances round.
How do you make the wheels go round?
The children were spinning round and round.
(figurative) The thought kept going round and round in her head.
a young tree measuring only 18 inches round
They've built a high fence all round to keep intruders out.
A large crowd had gathered round to watch.
People stood round waiting for something to happen.
He turned the car round and drove back again.
She looked round at the sound of his voice.
We walked round to the back of the house.
The road's blocked—you'll have to drive the long way round.
They've moved all the furniture round.
He went round interviewing people about local traditions.
Pass the biscuits round.
Have we enough cups to go round?
I'll be round in an hour.
We've invited the Frasers round this evening.
We're leaving round about ten.
A new roof will cost round about £3 000.
in Oxford and the villages round about
the first woman to sail round the world
The earth moves round the sun.
Our house is round the next bend.
There she is, coming round the corner.
There must be a way round the problem.
She put her arms round him.
He had a scarf round his neck.
They were all sitting round the table.
She looked all round the room.
He has to organize his life round the kids.
There are no decent schools round here.
the next round of peace talks
the final round of voting in the election
the qualifying rounds of the National Championships
Anderson was knocked out of the tournament in the third round.
The fight only lasted five rounds.
We played a round of golf.
the first horse to jump a clear round
the daily round of school life
Her life is one long round of parties and fun.
Dr Green was on her daily ward rounds.
(BrE) a postman on his delivery round
a round of drinks
It's my round (= it is my turn to pay for the next set of drinks).
Who's for another round of toast?
two rounds of beef sandwiches
Cut the pastry into rounds.
There was a great round of applause when the dance ended.
They fired several rounds at the crowd.
We only have three rounds of ammunition left.
The boat rounded the tip of the island.
We rounded the bend at high speed.
She rounded her lips and whistled.
His eyes rounded with horror.
She rounded off the tour with a concert at Carnegie Hall.
You can round off the corners with sandpaper.
He rounded on journalists, calling them 'a pack of vultures'.
I rounded up a few friends for a party.
The cattle are rounded up in the evenings.
a round robin story
a 30-mile round trip to work
(NAmE) It's 30 miles round trip to work.
a round-trip ticket
round-table talks
round-the-clock nursing care
We'll be back after the break with a round-up of today's other stories.
At the roundabout, take the second exit.
If you earn more, you pay more in tax, so it's all swings and roundabouts.
It was a difficult and roundabout trip.
He told us, in a very roundabout way, that he was thinking of leaving.
a surface with rounded edges
rounded shoulders
a smooth rounded taste
a fully rounded education
The report has been roundly criticized.
They were roundly defeated (= they lost by a large number of points).
The telephone roused me from my sleep at 6  a.m.
Nicky roused her with a gentle nudge.
A lot of people were roused to action by the appeal.
Richard couldn't rouse himself to say anything in reply.
to rouse sb's anger
What roused your suspicions (= what made you suspicious)?
Chris is not easily roused.
a rousing cheer
The team was given a rousing reception by the fans.
a rousing speech
The Buffalo Bills routed the Atlanta Falcons 41–14.
Which is the best route to take?
Motorists are advised to find an alternative route.
a coastal route
the quickest route from Florence to Rome
an escape route
The house is not on a bus route.
shipping routes
a cycle route (= a path that is only for cyclists)
the route to success
Route 66
Satellites route data all over the globe.
We are trying to get the baby into a routine for feeding and sleeping.
Make exercise a part of your daily routine.
We clean and repair the machines as a matter of routine.
She needed a break from routine.
a dance routine
routine enquiries/questions/tests
The fault was discovered during a routine check.
He died of a heart attack during a routine operation.
a routine job
This type of work rapidly becomes routine.
Visitors are routinely checked as they enter the building.
A quarter of a million refugees roved around the country.
bands of thieves who roved the countryside
a roving reporter for ABC news
Patrick's roving lifestyle takes him between London and Los Angeles.
a row of trees
We sat in a row at the back of the room.
The vegetables were planted in neat rows.
Let's sit in the back row.
Our seats are five rows from the front.
Manor Row
We went for a row on the lake.
We rowed around the island.
Grace rowed the boat out to sea again.
The fisherman rowed us back to the shore.
The government is now trying to row back on its commitments.
A row has broken out over education.
She left him after a blazing row.
family rows
He had a row with his son.
Who's making that row?
Mike and Sue are always rowing.
She had rowed with her parents about her boyfriend.
The government was forced into more rowbacks on budget cuts.
a rowdy crowd at the pub
rowdies and troublemakers
to go rowing
the royal family
the royal household
the Royal Navy
the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
We were given a royal welcome.
Their Royal Highnesses, the Duke and Duchess of Kent
health food products containing royal jelly
The gala evening was attended by royalty and politicians.
We were treated like royalty.
All royalties from the album will go to charity.
She received £2 000 in royalties.
RT @EddieSmith Great new menu at the Burger Shack www.theburgershack.com
an RTF file
She rubbed her chin thoughtfully.
Rub the surface with sandpaper before painting.
The cat rubbed itself against my legs.
I rubbed at the stain on the cloth.
Animals had been rubbing against the trees.
Rub the surface smooth.
She rubbed her hands in delight.
It sounded like two pieces of wood rubbing together.
The back of my shoe is rubbing.
The wheel is rubbing on the mudguard.
The horse's neck was rubbed raw (= until the skin came off) where the rope had been.
She rubbed the lotion into her skin.
I know I was stupid; you don't have to rub it in.
Her sense of fun has rubbed off on her children.
She rubbed off the dead skin.
The gold colouring had begun to rub off.
(BrE) If you write on the blackboard, rub it off at the end of the lesson.
to rub out a mistake
She gave her knee a quick rub.
The hotel is in the middle of nowhere and there lies the rub. We don't have a car.
You may need to give the floor a rub-down with glasspaper.
a ball made of rubber
a rubber tree
a rubber ball
rubber gloves
Parliament is seen as a rubber stamp for decisions made elsewhere.
rubberized cloth
The eggs were overcooked and rubbery.
a rubbish bag/bin
a rubbish dump/heap/tip
The streets were littered with rubbish.
garden/household rubbish
I thought the play was rubbish!
Do we have to listen to this rubbish music?
Rubbish! You're not fat.
You're talking a load of rubbish.
It's not rubbish—it's true!
rubbishy old films
The bomb reduced the houses to rubble.
Today we cross the Rubicon. There is no going back.
a ruby ring
ruby lips
ruched curtains
She saw marriage to him as a way out of the ruck.
Your dress is rucked up at the back.
There'll be ructions if her father ever finds out.
ruddy cheeks
a ruddy complexion
a ruddy sky
I can't get the ruddy car to start!
There was a ruddy great hole in the ceiling.
a rude comment
The man was downright rude to us.
She was very rude about my driving.
It's rude to speak when you're eating.
a rude gesture
Someone made a rude noise.
The joke is too rude to repeat.
Those expecting good news will get a rude shock.
If the players think they can win this match easily, they are in for a rude awakening.
rude shacks
She was critical to the point of rudeness.
They brushed rudely past us.
'What do you want?' she asked rudely.
I was rudely awakened by the phone ringing.
They were given only rudimentary training in the job.
Some dinosaurs had only rudimentary teeth.
He rued the day they had bought such a large house.
a rueful smile
'So this is goodbye,' she said ruefully.
She ruffled his hair affectionately.
The bird ruffled up its feathers.
She was obviously ruffled by his question.
He never gets ruffled, even under pressure.
a ruffled blouse
a hearth rug (= in front of a fireplace )
rugged cliffs
They admired the rugged beauty of the coastline.
a rugged individualist
A less rugged vehicle would never have made the trip.
rugged outdoor clothing
ruggedly handsome
The bad weather ruined our trip.
That one mistake ruined his chances of getting the job.
My new shoes got ruined in the mud.
If she loses the court case it will ruin her.
The country was ruined by the war.
A large number of churches fell into ruin after the revolution.
The divorce ultimately led to his ruin.
The bank stepped in to save the company from financial ruin.
Gambling was his ruin.
The old mill is now little more than a ruin.
We visited the ruins of a Norman castle.
(figurative) He was determined to build a new life out of the ruins of his career.
Urban development has led to the ruination of vast areas of countryside.
a ruined castle
ruinous legal fees
The decision was to prove ruinous.
a ruinous chapel
The buildings were in a ruinous state.
ruinously expensive
The court will make its ruling on the case next week.
the ruling party
The machine rumbled as it started up.
thunder rumbling in the distance
I'm so hungry my stomach's rumbling.
tanks rumbling through the streets
They knew they had been rumbled.
Discussions rumble on over the siting of the new airport.
the rumble of thunder
Inside, the noise of the traffic was reduced to a distant rumble.
(figurative) Although an agreement has been reached, rumbles of resentment can still be heard.
the rumblings of thunder
a rumbling noise
(figurative) the rumblings of discontent
There are rumblings that the election may have to be postponed.
ruminant animals
in a ruminative mood
She was rummaging around in her bag for her keys.
I rummaged through the contents of the box until I found the book I wanted.
Have a rummage around in the drawer and see if you can find a pen.
to start/spread a rumour
There are widespread rumours of job losses.
Some malicious rumours are circulating about his past.
I heard a rumour that they are getting married.
Many of the stories are based on rumour.
Rumour has it (= people say) that he was murdered.
It's widely rumoured that she's getting promoted.
He was rumoured to be involved in the crime.
He denied his father's rumoured love affair.
She rumpled his hair playfully.
The bed was rumpled where he had slept.
to cause a rumpus
Can you run as fast as Mike?
They turned and ran when they saw us coming.
She came running to meet us.
The dogs ran off as soon as we appeared.
Run and get your swimsuits, kids.
I ran and knocked on the nearest door.
Who was the first person to run a mile in under four minutes?
She used to run when she was at college.
I often go running before work.
He will be running in the 100 metres tonight.
There are only five horses running in the first race.
to run the marathon
Holmes ran a fine race to take the gold medal.
The Derby will be run in spite of the bad weather.
I've spent the whole day running around after the kids.
to run a hotel/store/language school
He has no idea how to run a business.
Stop trying to run my life (= organize it) for me.
The shareholders want more say in how the company is run.
a badly run company
state-run industries
The college runs summer courses for foreign students.
I can't afford to run a car on my salary.
Stan had the chainsaw running.
(figurative) Her life had always run smoothly before.
Our van runs on (= uses) diesel.
Could you run the engine for a moment?
Buses to Oxford run every half hour.
All the trains are running late (= are leaving later than planned).
They run extra trains during the rush hour.
Shall I run you home?
The car ran off the road into a ditch.
A shiver ran down my spine.
The sledge ran smoothly over the frozen snow.
The old tramlines are still there but now no trams run on them.
She ran her fingers nervously through her hair.
I ran my eyes over the page.
He had a scar running down his left cheek.
The road runs parallel to the river.
We ran a cable from the lights to the stage.
Her last musical ran for six months on Broadway.
This debate will run and run!
The permit runs for three months.
The lease on my house only has a year left to run.
Programmes are running a few minutes behind schedule this evening.
The murderer was given three life sentences, to run concurrently.
Their argument ran something like this…
'Ten shot dead by gunmen,' ran the newspaper headline.
The tears ran down her cheeks.
Water was running all over the bathroom floor.
She ran hot water into the bucket.
to run the hot tap (= to turn it so that water flows from it)
I'll run a bath for you.
I'll run you a bath.
Who left the tap running?
Your nose is running (= mucus is flowing from it).
The smoke makes my eyes run.
His face was running with sweat.
The bathroom floor was running with water.
The wax began to run.
The river ran dry (= stopped flowing) during the drought.
Supplies are running low.
We've run short of milk.
You've got your rivals running scared.
Inflation was running at 26%.
On advice from their lawyers they decided not to run the story.
The doctors decided to run some more tests on the blood samples.
Bush ran a second time in 2004.
to run for president
to run in the election
It will be a lot easier when we have the database up and running.
He's always running after younger women.
She's always running around with older men.
He ran at me with a knife.
He ran away from home at the age of thirteen.
Looking at all the accusing faces, she felt a sudden urge to run away.
You can't just run away from the situation.
Her imagination tends to run away with her.
She ran away with her boss.
She and her boss ran away together.
I don't want you to run away with the impression that all I do is have meetings all day.
I'll run back over the procedure once again.
The battery has run down.
British manufacturing industry has been running down for years.
If you leave your headlights on you'll soon run down the battery.
The company is running down its sales force.
He's always running her down in front of other people.
(figurative) Whatever system you choose, it must be run in properly.
Guess who I ran into today!
We ran into thick fog on the way home.
Be careful not to run into debt.
to run into danger/trouble/difficulties
Her income runs into six figures (= is more than £100 000, $100 000, etc.).
The bus went out of control and ran into a line of people.
He ran his car into a tree.
Could you run off twenty copies of the agenda?
The heats of the 200 metres will be run off tomorrow.
The treasurer had run off with the club's funds.
The meeting will finish promptly—I don't want it to run on.
Time is running out for the trapped miners.
We ran out of fuel.
Could I have a cigarette? I seem to have run out.
Two children were run over and killed.
She ran over her notes before giving the lecture.
Run that past me again.
He ran through the names on the list.
Could we run through your proposals once again?
An angry murmur ran through the crowd.
Thoughts of revenge kept running through his mind.
A deep melancholy runs through her poetry.
Can we run through Scene 3 again, please?
She ran through the entire amount within two years.
The book runs to nearly 800 pages.
Our funds won't run to a trip abroad this year.
How had he managed to run up so many debts?
to run up a blouse
The government is running up against considerable opposition to its tax reforms.
OK, let's run with Jan's suggestion.
I go for a run every morning.
a five-mile run
Catching sight of her he broke into a run (= started running).
I decided to make a run for it (= to escape by running).
She took the stairs at a run.
They took the car out for a run.
a run of good/bad luck
Liverpool lost to Leeds, ending an unbeaten run of 18 games.
The show had a record-breaking run in the London theatre.
The first print run of 6 000 copies sold out.
a run on the band's latest CD
In the normal run of things the only exercise he gets is climbing in and out of taxis.
(BrE) Wise scored in the 15th minute against the run of play (= although the other team had seemed more likely to score).
a ski/toboggan, etc. run
Our team won by four runs.
He made an unsuccessful run for governor in 2008.
a chicken run
He was very different from the general run of movie stars.
The ivy has run wild.
Let your imagination run wild and be creative.
run-down inner-city areas
run-down transport services
to be run-down
The fiery player has had numerous run-ins with referees.
an increase in spending in the run-up to Christmas
during the run-up to the election
runaway children
a runaway horse/car
a runaway winner/victory
the runaway success of her first play
runaway inflation
teenage runaways living on the streets
a rundown of transport services
I can give you a brief rundown on each of the applicants.
runic inscriptions
He put his foot on the bottom rung to keep the ladder steady.
(figurative) to get a foot on the bottom rung of the career ladder
She was a few rungs above him on the social ladder.
to go running
running shoes
the day-to-day running of a business
the running costs of a car (= for example of fuel, repairs, insurance)
drug-running
She's won the championship three years running.
It was the third day running that the train had been late.
No party has won an election four times running.
I can hear the sound of running water.
a remote cottage without electricity or running water
For years he had fought a running battle with the authorities over the land.
a running argument
His old raincoat became a running joke (= people kept laughing at it).
a fast-running river
a long-distance/cross-country/marathon, etc. runner
a list of runners (= horses in a race) and riders
a drug runner
the runners of a sledge
Winner: Kay Hall. Runner-up: Chris Platts.
They finished runners-up behind Sweden.
The runners-up will all receive a £50 prize.
runny honey
Omelettes should be runny in the middle.
to give a running commentary on the game
The presidential nominee was advised to choose a woman as a running mate.
the runt of the litter
the rupture of a blood vessel
ruptures of oil and water pipelines
I nearly gave myself a rupture lifting that pile of books.
a rupture in relations between the two countries
Nothing could heal the rupture with his father.
a ruptured appendix
He ruptured himself (= got a hernia ) trying to lift the piano.
The impact ruptured both fuel tanks.
A pipe ruptured, leaking water all over the house.
the risk of rupturing North-South relations
rural areas
a rural economy
rural America
a rural way of life
We've got plenty of time; there's no need to rush.
the sound of rushing water
Don't rush off, I haven't finished.
I've been rushing around all day trying to get everything done.
People rushed to buy shares in the company.
We had to rush our meal.
Ambulances rushed the injured to the hospital.
Relief supplies were rushed in.
We don't want to rush into having a baby.
Don't rush me. I need time to think about it.
I'm not going to be rushed into anything.
A group of prisoners rushed an officer and managed to break out.
Fans rushed the stage after the concert.
He is being rushed by Sigma Nu.
The editors rushed out an item on the crash for the late news.
to rush a bill through Parliament
Shoppers made a rush for the exits.
She was trampled in the rush to get out.
They listened to the rush of the sea below.
The door blew open, letting in a rush of cold air.
He had a rush of blood to the head (= suddenly lost control of himself) and punched the man.
I can't stop—I'm in a rush.
What's the rush?
'I'll let you have the book back tomorrow.' ' There's no rush.'
The words came out in a rush.
a rush job (= one that has been done quickly)
The evening rush was just starting.
the Christmas rush
a sudden rush of excitement/fear/anger
Parachuting will give you the rush of a lifetime.
Users of the drug report experiencing a rush that lasts several minutes.
There's been a rush on umbrellas this week.
rush matting
There was a rush on the quarterback.
Johnson carried the ball an average of 6 yards per rush.
rush week
a rush party
the morning/evening rush hour
Don't travel at rush hour/in the rush hour.
rush-hour traffic
It was a rushed decision made at the end of the meeting.
Let's start work on it now so we're not too rushed at the end.
leaves of russet and gold
(figurative) The airline was accused of playing Russian roulette with passenger safety.
Russo-Japanese relations
pipes covered with rust
rust spots
a rust-coloured dress
old rusting farming implements
Brass doesn't rust.
Water had got in and rusted the engine.
rusted iron
an old cottage full of rustic charm
a rustic garden seat
a rustic fence
rusty metal
a rusty old car
My tennis is very rusty these days.
I haven't played the piano for ages—I may be a little rusty.
the sound of the trees rustling in the breeze
I'm sure I can rustle you up a sandwich.
She's trying to rustle up some funding for the project.
There was a rustle of paper as people turned the pages.
I heard a faint rustle in the bushes.
the soft rustling of leaves
I gave up my job because I felt I was stuck in a rut.
If you don't go out and meet new people, it's easy to get into a rut.
a ruthless dictator
The way she behaved towards him was utterly ruthless.
He has a ruthless determination to succeed.
rutting deer
the rutting season
In some countries children don't start learning to read and write until they are six.
Please write in pen on both sides of the paper.
I haven't got anything to write with.
Write your name at the top of the paper.
The teacher wrote the answers on the board.
The 'b' had been wrongly written as a 'd'.
to write a novel/a song/an essay/a computer program, etc.
Who was 'The Grapes of Wrath' written by?
Which opera did Verdi write first?
He hopes to write a book about his experiences one day.
She had to write a report on the project.
I wanted to travel and then write about it.
He writes for the 'New Yorker' (= works as a writer).
No decision has been made at the time of writing.
She wrote him several poems.
Bye! Don't forget to write.
Can you write and confirm your booking?
I'm writing to enquire about language courses.
She wrote to him in France.
I wrote a letter to the Publicity Department.
I wrote the Publicity Department a letter.
She wrote that they were all fine.
(NAmE) Write me while you're away.
(NAmE) He wrote me that he would be arriving Monday.
They wrote thanking us for the present.
In his latest book he writes that the theory has since been disproved.
Ancient historians wrote of a lost continent beneath the ocean.
'Of all my books,' wrote Dickens, 'I like this the best.'
to write out a cheque
I'll write you a receipt.
An error was reported when he tried to write data to the file for the first time.
This pen won't write.
I'm afraid I never wrote back.
She wrote back saying that she couldn't come.
Write down the address before you forget it.
I'll write in for more information.
I've written off for the catalogue.
to write off a debt/an investment
to write up your notes/the minutes of a meeting
There's no Rx for unemployment.
rye bread
rye whisky
'Snow' begins with (an) S/'S'.
S Yorkshire
If a student does not attend all the classes, s/he will not be allowed to take the exam.
to take a year's sabbatical
a sabbatical term/year
He's on sabbatical.
to keep/break the Sabbath (= to obey/not obey the religious rules for this day)
an act of economic/military/industrial sabotage
Police investigating the train derailment have not ruled out sabotage.
The main electricity supply had been sabotaged by the rebels.
Protesters failed to sabotage the peace talks.
The rise in interest rates sabotaged any chance of the firm's recovery.
Saboteurs blew up a small section of the track.
(BrE) hunt saboteurs (= people who try to stop people from hunting foxes, etc.)
a saccharine smile
saccharine songs
a sachet of sauce/sugar/shampoo
They got through a sack of potatoes.
(NAmE) two sacks of groceries
He got the sack for swearing.
Her work was so poor that she was given the sack.
Four hundred workers face the sack.
He caught them in the sack together.
the sack of Rome
She was sacked for refusing to work on Sundays.
Rome was sacked by the Goths in 410.
two sackfuls of flour
The makers of the product assured us that there had been no sacrifice of quality.
Her parents made sacrifices so that she could have a good education.
to make the final/supreme sacrifice (= to die for your country, to save a friend, etc.)
They offered sacrifices to the gods.
a human sacrifice (= a person killed as a sacrifice )
She sacrificed everything for her children.
The designers have sacrificed speed for fuel economy.
Would you sacrifice a football game to go out with a girl?
sacramental wine
a sacred image/shrine/temple
sacred music
Cows are sacred to Hindus.
Human life must always be sacred.
For journalists nothing is sacred (= they write about anything).
a sacrificial lamb
(figurative) It would be sacrilege to alter the composer's original markings.
I'll work till late in the evening, but my weekends are sacrosanct.
We are very sad to hear that you are leaving.
I was sad that she had to go.
I felt terribly sad about it.
She looked sad and tired.
He gave a slight, sad smile.
The divorce left him sadder and wiser (= having learned from the unpleasant experience).
a sad story
It was sad to see them go.
It is sad that so many of his paintings have been lost.
We had some sad news yesterday.
He's a sad case—his wife died last year and he can't seem to manage without her.
Sad to say (= unfortunately) the house has now been demolished.
a sad state of affairs
It's a sad fact that many of those killed were children.
You sad old man.
You'd have to be sad to wear a shirt like that.
The salad consisted of a few leaves of sad-looking lettuce.
We were deeply saddened by the news of her death.
Fans were saddened to see the former champion play so badly.
It saddened her that people could be so cruel.
She swung herself into the saddle.
I've been saddled with organizing the conference.
The company was saddled with debts of £12 million.
a bunch of saddos who spend their lives playing computer games
There's a streak of sadism in his nature.
He took sadistic pleasure in taunting the boy.
Sadly, after eight years of marriage they had grown apart.
She shook her head sadly.
She will be sadly missed.
If you think I'm going to help you again, you're sadly (= completely) mistaken.
memories tinged with sadness
I felt a deep sadness.
our joys and sadnesses
Please enclose an sae for your test results.
to be/go on safari
I just got back from a month-long safari.
It arrived while I was on safari.
The children are quite safe here.
She didn't feel safe on her own.
Will the car be safe parked in the road?
They aimed to make the country safe from terrorist attacks.
Your secret is safe with me (= I will not tell anyone else).
Here's your passport. Now keep it safe.
Is the water here safe to drink?
The street is not safe for children to play in.
It is one of the safest cars in the world.
We watched the explosion from a safe distance.
Builders were called in to make the building safe.
We were glad she let us know she was safe.
The missing child was found safe and well.
They turned up safe and sound.
A reward was offered for the animal's safe return.
We all want to live in safer cities.
Keep your passport in a safe place.
a safe investment
a safe subject for discussion
It's safe to assume (that) there will always be a demand for new software.
It would be safer to take more money with you in case of emergency.
(disapproving) The show was well performed, but so safe and predictable.
a safe driver
a safe verdict
I like him, he's safe.
That kid's safe.
'You want some?' 'Yeah, safe.'
She went out safe in the knowledge that she looked fabulous.
The guerrillas were promised safe conduct out of the country.
She had put her watch in her pocket for safe keeping.
The documents are in the safe keeping of our lawyers.
to safeguard a person's interests
to safeguard jobs
The new card will safeguard the company against fraud.
The leaflet explains how to safeguard against dangers in the home.
Stronger legal safeguards are needed to protect the consumer.
The plane landed safely.
The bomb has been safely disposed of.
The money is safely locked in a drawer.
We can safely say that he will accept the job.
I thought the kids were safely tucked up in bed.
These recommendations can safely be ignored.
a place where children can play in safety
The police are concerned for the safety of the 12-year-old boy who has been missing for three days.
He was kept in custody for his own safety.
I'm worried about the safety of the treatment.
safety standards
a local campaign to improve road safety
The airline has an excellent safety record.
I managed to swim to safety.
We watched the lions from the safety of the car.
They reached safety seconds before the building was engulfed in flames.
a financial safety net
people who have fallen through the safety net and ended up homeless on the streets
Exercise is a good safety valve for the tension that builds up at work.
Buddhist monks in saffron robes
a sagging roof
The tent began to sag under the weight of the rain.
Your skin starts to sag as you get older.
Their share of the vote sagged badly at the last election.
Weight has caused the sag.
We sagged off school and wrote the song.
a family saga
The front page is devoted to the continuing saga of the hijack.
(humorous) the saga of how I missed the plane
She nodded sagely.
sago pudding
the said company
to sail into harbour
The dinghy sailed smoothly across the lake.
The ferry sails from Newhaven to Dieppe.
one of the first people to sail around the world
to sail the Atlantic
We spent the weekend sailing off the south coast.
Do you go sailing often?
She sails her own yacht.
We sail at 2 p.m. tomorrow.
He sailed for the West Indies from Portsmouth.
clouds sailing across the sky
The ball sailed over the goalie's head.
She sailed past, ignoring me completely.
As the boat moved down the river the wind began to fill the sails.
a ship under sail (= using sails)
in the days of sail (= when ships all used sails)
She moved away like a ship in full sail (= with all its sails spread out).
We went for a sail.
a two-hour sail across the bay
a liner setting sail from New York
We set sail (for France) at high tide.
to go sailing
a sailing club
There are six sailings a day.
St John
St Valentine's Day
The children were all named after saints.
She's a saint to go on living with that man.
His behaviour would try the patience of a saint.
And how is my sainted sister?
to lead a saintly life
All main courses come with salad or vegetables.
Is cold meat and salad OK for lunch?
a side salad (= a small bowl of salad served with the main course of a meal)
a salad bowl (= a large bowl for serving salad in)
a chicken salad
potato salad
a pasta salad
salad plants
a salaried employee
a salaried position
an annual salary of $40 000
a 9% salary increase
She's on a salary of £24 000.
(BrE) He gets a basic salary plus commission.
(NAmE) base salary
regulations governing the sale of alcoholic beverages
I haven't made a sale all week.
She gets 10% commission on each sale.
Retail sales fell in November by 10%.
Export sales were up by 32% last year.
the sales figures for May
a sales drive/campaign (= a special effort to sell more)
a sales and marketing director
She works in sales/in the sales department.
The Weldon Group has a 6 000 strong sales force.
The sale starts next week.
the January sales
I bought a coat in the sales.
sale prices
a contemporary art sale
a saleable product
not in saleable condition
a car salesman
She pointed out the salient features of the new design.
He summarized the salient points.
Wash the lenses in saline solution.
to measure the salinity of the water
(figurative) He was salivating over the thought of the million dollars.
a whole salmon
smoked salmon
wild and farmed salmon
cases of salmonella poisoning
an outbreak of salmonella
a beauty salon
a hairdressing salon
a literary salon
a five-seater family saloon
a pinch of salt (= a small amount of it)
Season with salt and pepper.
sea salt
mineral salts
bath salts (= used to give a pleasant smell to bath water)
Any teacher worth her salt knows that.
salted peanuts
a pan of boiling salted water
salted fish
She salted away the profits in foreign bank accounts.
salt water
salt beef
saltwater fish
salty food
salty sea air
She could taste the saltiness of her tears.
a salutary lesson/experience/warning
The accident was a salutary reminder of the dangers of climbing.
The sergeant stood to attention and saluted.
to salute the flag/an officer
The players saluted the fans before leaving the field.
The president saluted the courage of those who had fought for their country.
He raised his hat as a friendly salute.
His first words were a salute to the people of South Africa.
They all raised their glasses in salute.
a 21-gun salute
the salvage of the wrecked tanker
a salvage company/operation/team
an exhibition of the salvage from the wreck
The wreck was salvaged by a team from the RAF.
The house was built using salvaged materials.
We only managed to salvage two paintings from the fire.
What can I do to salvage my reputation?(= get a good reputation again)
He wondered what he could do to salvage the situation.
United lost 5–2, salvaging a little pride with two late goals.
to pray for the salvation of the world
Group therapy classes have been his salvation.
The first salvo exploded a short distance away.
(figurative) The newspaper article was the opening salvo in what proved to be a long battle.
a salwar kameez (= a salwar worn with a kameez )
We have lived in the same house for twenty years.
Our children go to the same school as theirs.
She's still the same fun-loving person that I knew at college.
This one works in exactly the same way as the other.
They both said much the same thing.
He used the very same (= exactly the same) words.
I resigned last Friday and left that same day.
I bought the same car as yours (= another car of that type).
She was wearing the same dress that I had on.
The same thing happened to me last week.
'How's it going?' 'Oh, same old, same old.'
I would do the same again.
I think the same as you do about this.
Just do the same as me (= as I do).
His latest movie is just more of the same —exotic locations, car chases and a final shoot-out.
(informal) 'I'll have coffee.' 'Same for me, please (= I will have one too).'
There are several brands and they're not all the same.
I'd like one the same as yours.
'Was that George on the phone?' 'The same (= yes, it was George).'
It turns out that her aunt and my cousin are one and the same.
'I can't wait to see it.' 'Same here.'
We treat boys exactly the same as girls.
(informal) He gave me five dollars, same as usual.
The child's same-sex parent acts as a role model.
a same-sex relationship
She grew tired of the sameness of the food.
The interviews were given to a random sample of students.
The survey covers a representative sample of schools.
a sample survey
a blood sample
Samples of the water contained pesticide.
'I'd like to see a sample of your work,' said the manager.
a free sample of shampoo
I sampled the delights of Greek cooking for the first time.
12% of the children sampled said they prefer cats to dogs.
statistical sampling
This was a practice sanctified by tradition.
Trade sanctions were imposed against any country that refused to sign the agreement.
The economic sanctions have been lifted.
These changes will require the sanction of the court.
The ultimate sanction will be the closure of the restaurant.
The government refused to sanction a further cut in interest rates.
the sanctity of marriage
a life of sanctity, like that of St Francis
a bird/wildlife sanctuary
to take sanctuary in a place
The government offered sanctuary to 4 000 refugees.
She longed for the sanctuary of her own home.
The church became a sanctuary for the refugees.
She once allowed me into her inner sanctum.
a grain of sand
Concrete is a mixture of sand and cement.
His hair was the colour of sand.
The children were playing in the sand (= for example, in a sandpit ).
children playing on the sand
miles of golden sands
sandalled feet
a sandy beach
sandy soil
a cheese sandwich
a sandwich bar (= a place that sells sandwiches)
I was sandwiched between two fat men on the bus.
Sandwich the cakes together with cream.
No sane person would do that.
Being able to get out of the city at the weekend keeps me sane.
the sane way to solve the problem
The leader of the sangh appealed for peace.
They are less sanguine about the company's long-term prospects.
He tends to take a sanguine view of the problems involved.
Overcrowding and poor sanitary conditions led to disease in the refugee camps.
The hut had no cooking or sanitary facilities.
The new houses were more sanitary than the old ones had been.
disease resulting from poor sanitation
This sanitized account of his life does not mention his time in prison.
His behaviour was so strange that I began to doubt his sanity.
to keep/preserve your sanity
After a series of road accidents the police pleaded for sanity among drivers.
There were no potatoes so we had fish and chips sans the chips.
Maple syrup is made from sap extracted from the sugar maple tree.
The hot sun sapped our energy.
Years of failure have sapped him of his confidence.
sapphire eyes
'That will be useful,' she snapped with heavy sarcasm (= she really thought it would not be useful at all).
a hint/touch/trace of sarcasm in his voice
sarcastic comments
a sarcastic manner
'There's no need to be sarcastic,' she said.
a sardonic smile
Sergeant Salter
No new SARS cases have been reported in the region.
Don't sass your mother!
his sassy, streetwise daughter
to take the SAT
I scored 1050 on the SAT.
a SAT score
a weather/communications satellite
The interview came live by satellite from Hollywood.
satellite television/TV (= broadcast using a satellite )
a satellite broadcast/channel/picture
The moon is a satellite of earth.
satellite states
satanic cults
Not one incident of satanic abuse has actually been proved.
sated with pleasure
a white satin ribbon
The paint has a satin finish.
her satiny skin
political/social satire
a work full of savage/biting satire
The novel is a stinging satire on American politics.
a satirical magazine
to gain/get/derive satisfaction from sth
a look/smile of satisfaction
She looked back on her career with great satisfaction.
He had the satisfaction of seeing his book become a bestseller.
She didn't want to give him the satisfaction of seeing her cry.
The company is trying to improve customer satisfaction.
He was enjoying all the satisfactions of being a parent.
the satisfaction of sexual desires
the satisfaction of your ambitions
I complained to the manager but I didn't get any satisfaction.
The affair was settled to the complete satisfaction of the client.
Can you demonstrate to our satisfaction that your story is true?
a satisfactory explanation/answer/solution/conclusion
The work is satisfactory but not outstanding.
The existing law is not entirely/wholly satisfactory.
Her disappearance has never been satisfactorily explained.
Our complaint was dealt with satisfactorily.
a satisfied customer
She's never satisfied with what she's got.
I'm satisfied that they are telling the truth.
Nothing satisfies him—he's always complaining.
The proposed plan will not satisfy everyone.
The food wasn't enough to satisfy his hunger.
to satisfy sb's curiosity
The education system must satisfy the needs of all children.
We cannot satisfy demand for the product.
She failed to satisfy all the requirements for entry to the college.
Her explanation did not satisfy the teacher.
People need to be satisfied of the need for a new system.
Once I had satisfied myself (that) it was the right decision, we went ahead.
a satisfying meal
a satisfying experience
The drivers all have satnav in the van.
The continuous rain had saturated the soil.
The company had saturated the market for personal organizers (= so that no new buyers could be found).
a saturated solution of sodium chloride
saturated reds
a business beset by price wars and market saturation (= the fact that no new customers can be found)
saturation bombing of the city (= covering the whole city)
There was saturation coverage (= so much that it was impossible to avoid it or add to it) of the event by the media.
The market for computer games has reached saturation point.
tomato/cranberry/chilli, etc. sauce
chicken in a white sauce
ice cream with a hot fudge sauce
cups and saucers
saucy jokes
a saucy smile
a hotel with a swimming pool and sauna
to have/take a sauna
He sauntered by, looking as if he had all the time in the world.
This part of the route should be an easy saunter.
beef/pork sausages
200g of garlic sausage
sauté potatoes
savage dogs
She had been badly hurt in what police described as 'a savage attack'.
savage public spending cuts
The article was a savage attack on the government's record.
a savage tribe
savagely attacked/criticized
'No!' he snarled savagely.
the development of the human race from primitive savages
He described the attack as the work of savages.
She was savaged to death by a bear.
Her latest novel has been savaged by the critics.
The police were shocked by the savagery of the attacks.
to save sb's life
Doctors were unable to save her.
He's trying to save their marriage.
She needs to win the next two games to save the match.
(figurative) Thanks for doing that. You saved my life (= helped me a lot).
to save a rare species (from extinction)
She saved a little girl from falling into the water.
I'm not very good at saving.
I'm saving for a new bike.
We've been saving up to go to Australia.
You should save a little each week.
I've saved almost £100 so far.
I've been saving theatre programmes for years.
If you save ten tokens you can get a T-shirt.
He's saving his strength for the last part of the race.
We'll eat some now and save some for tomorrow.
Save some food for me.
Save me some food.
We'll take a cab to save time.
Book early and save £50!
We should try to save water.
The government is trying to save £1 million on defence.
If we go this way it will save us two hours on the trip.
I save on fares by walking to work.
The prize money saved her from having to find a job.
She did it herself to save argument.
Thanks for sending that letter for me—it saved me a trip.
He's grown a beard to save shaving.
If you phone for an appointment, it'll save you waiting.
to save a penalty
The goalie saved Johnson's long-range shot.
(BrE) The goalie saved brilliantly from Johnson's long-range shot.
Save data frequently.
He made a spectacular save.
They knew nothing about her save her name.
They found out nothing more save that she had borne a child.
Buy three and make a saving of 55p.
With the new boiler you can make big savings on fuel bills.
He put all his savings into buying a boat.
I opened a savings account at my local bank.
energy-saving modifications
labour-saving devices
space-saving fitted furniture
a money/time saver
He was wearing a Savile Row suit.
The new manager has been hailed as the saviour of the club.
He ate his meal slowly, savouring every mouthful.
I wanted to savour every moment.
His recent comments savour of hypocrisy.
(figurative) For Emma, life had lost its savour.
savoury snacks
a savoury smell from the kitchen
political savvy
savvy shoppers
The workmen sawed and hammered all day.
He accidentally sawed through a cable.
She sawed the plank in half.
She sawed away at her violin.
He was sawing energetically at a loaf of bread.
The tree had to be sawn down.
We sawed the dead branches off the tree.
We sawed the wood up into logs.
Saxon churches/kings
'Hello!' she said.
'That was marvellous,' said Daniel.
Be quiet, I have something to say.
I didn't believe a word she said.
That's a terrible thing to say.
He knew that if he wasn't back by midnight, his parents would have something to say about it (= be angry).
She said nothing to me about it.
I said to myself (= thought), 'That can't be right!'
He said (that) his name was Sam.
It is said that she lived to be over 100.
She finds it hard to say what she feels.
'That's impossible!' ' So you say (= but I think you may be wrong).'
'Why can't I go out now?' 'Because I say so.'
'What do you want it for?' ' I'd rather not say.'
He said to meet him here.
He is said to have been a brilliant scholar.
'Sit down,' she said.
Anne said, 'I'm tired.'
Anne said (that) she was tired.
What did he say to you?
I want to say something/a few words/a little about my family.
She didn't say what she intended to do.
Have you told him the news yet?
Anne told me (that) she was tired.
Can you tell me when the movie starts?
Can you give me some information about the school?
The doctor told me to stay in bed.
The doctor told me (that) I had to stay in bed.
The doctor said (that) I had to stay in bed.
to say a prayer
Try to say that line with more conviction.
Say what you like (= although you disagree) about her, she's a fine singer.
I'll say this for them, they're a very efficient company.
Anna thinks I'm lazy— what do you say (= what is your opinion)?
I can't say I blame her for resigning (= I think she was right).
I say (= suggest) we go without them.
I wouldn't say they were rich (= in my opinion they are not rich).
That's not to say it's a bad movie (= it is good but it is not without faults).
It's hard to say what caused the accident.
'When will it be finished?' ' I couldn't say (= I don't know).'
You could learn the basics in, let's say, three months.
Let's take any writer, say (= for example) Dickens…
Say you lose your job: what would you do then?
His angry glance said it all.
That says it all really, doesn't it?(= it shows clearly what is true)
Just what is the artist trying to say in her work?
The notice said 'Keep Out'.
The clock said three o'clock.
The instructions say (that) we should leave it to set for four hours.
The book doesn't say where he was born.
The guidebook says to turn left.
If you don't invest in this, you're saying no to a potential fortune.
'They went to Paris together.' 'Say no more!'
'He's getting married.' 'Say what?'
three days from now, that is to say on Friday
She's a better player than me, but that's not saying much (= because I am a very bad player).
There's no saying how he'll react.
It was too expensive, to say nothing of the time it wasted.
'We must stand up for ourselves.' 'Well said, John.'
What do you say to eating out tonight?
Let's go away for a weekend. What do you say?
Sarah wanted the kitchen painted green, and what she says, goes.
I know you're upset, but when all's said and done it isn't exactly a disaster.
Who can say what will happen next year?
Who says I can't do it?
Who's to say we would not have succeeded if we'd had more time?
'He's in a bad mood today.' 'You can say that again!'
'They left without us.' 'You don't say!' (= I'm not surprised)
'I know I'm not the world's greatest cook.' 'You said it!'
Just say the word, and I'll go.
We had no say in the decision to sell the company.
People want a greater say in local government.
The judge has the final say on the sentence.
Say, that's a nice haircut!
Say, how about going to a movie tonight?
Nothing could be done without her say-so.
'Accidents will happen', as the saying goes.
John won't thank you for interfering.
scabrous skin
scads of $20 bills
A business database needs to be scalable.
scalable graphics
New database technology offers scalability for future growth.
Be careful not to scald yourself with the steam.
(figurative) Tears scalded her eyes.
scalding water
(figurative) Scalding tears poured down her face.
scalding hot
They entertain on a large scale (= they hold expensive parties with a lot of guests).
Here was corruption on a grand scale.
On a global scale, 77% of energy is created from fossil fuels.
to achieve economies of scale in production (= to produce many items so the cost of producing each one is reduced)
It was impossible to comprehend the full scale of the disaster.
It was not until morning that the sheer scale of the damage could be seen (= how great it was).
a five-point pay scale
to evaluate performance on a scale from 1 to 10
At the other end of the scale, life is a constant struggle to get enough to eat.
the social scale
How much does it read on the scale?
bathroom/kitchen/weighing scales
(figurative) the scales of justice (= represented as the two pans on a balance (5) )
a scale of 1:25 000
a scale model/drawing
Both plans are drawn to the same scale.
Is this diagram to scale (= are all its parts the same size and shape in relation to each other as they are in the thing represented)?
the scale of C major
to practise scales on the piano
He tipped the scales at just over 80 kilos.
the first woman to scale the world's five highest peaks
(figurative) He has scaled the heights of his profession.
The dentist scaled and polished my teeth.
Text can be scaled from 4 point to 108 point without any loss of quality.
We are thinking of scaling down our training programmes next year.
The IMF has scaled back its growth forecasts for the next decade.
a scallop shell
a scalloped edge
They have claimed some impressive scalps in their bid for the championship.
ticket scalpers
scampi and chips
He scanned the horizon for any sign of land.
She scanned his face anxiously.
I scanned the list quickly for my name.
She scanned through the newspaper over breakfast.
Their brains are scanned so that researchers can monitor the progress of the disease.
Concealed video cameras scan every part of the compound.
This software is designed to scan all new files for viruses.
How do I scan a photo and attach it to an email?
This line doesn't scan.
Text and pictures can be scanned into the computer.
to have a brain scan
to have a scan
a series of sex scandals
to cause/create a scandal
The scandal broke (= became known to the public) in May.
There has been no hint of scandal during his time in office.
to spread scandal
newspapers full of scandal
It is a scandal that such a large town has no orchestra.
She scandalized her family with her extravagant lifestyle.
a scandalous waste of money
It is scandalous that he has not been punished.
scandalous stories
scandalously low pay
The identity cards are examined by an electronic scanner.
a document scanner
a body scanner
I paid scant attention to what she was saying.
The firefighters went back into the house with scant regard for their own safety.
Details of his life are scanty.
a scanty bikini
scantily dressed models
She felt she had been made a scapegoat for her boss's incompetence.
a scar on his cheek
Will the operation leave a scar?
scar tissue
His years in prison have left deep scars.
The town still bears the scars of war.
Racism has been a scar on the game.
His face was badly scarred.
The experience left her scarred for life.
The hills are scarred by quarries.
battle-scarred buildings
scarce resources
Details of the accident are scarce.
Food was becoming scarce.
I can scarce remember him.
I can scarcely believe it.
We scarcely ever meet.
Scarcely a week goes by without some new scandal in the papers.
He had scarcely put the phone down when the doorbell rang.
Scarcely had the game started when it began to rain.
It was scarcely an occasion for laughter.
She could scarcely complain, could she?
a time of scarcity
a scarcity of resources
You scared me.
It scared me to think I was alone in the building.
He doesn't scare easily.
They managed to scare the bears away.
Local businesses were scared into paying protection money.
Rising prices are scaring customers off.
I'll see if I can scare up enough chairs for us all.
a bomb/health scare
recent scares about pesticides in food
a scare story (= a news report that spreads more anxiety or fear about sth than is necessary)
to cause a major scare
scare tactics (= ways of persuading people to do sth by frightening them)
You gave me a scare!
We've had quite a scare.
This pronouncement came from the organization's 'scientific' committee (the scare quotes are mine).
She is scared of going out alone.
He's scared of heights.
People are scared to use the buses late at night.
I'm scared (that) I'm going to fall.
The thieves got scared and ran away.
a scared look
I was scared to death (= very frightened).
We were scared stiff (= very frightened).
a woollen/silk scarf
It was a really scary moment.
a scary movie
scarlet berries
She went scarlet with embarrassment.
The police arrived, so we scarpered.
a Scart socket
a scathing attack on the new management
He was scathing about the government's performance.
'Oh, she's just a kid,' he said scathingly.
scatological humour
They scattered his ashes at sea.
Scatter the grass seed over the lawn.
Scatter the lawn with grass seed.
At the first gunshot, the crowd scattered.
The explosion scattered a flock of birds roosting in the trees.
a scattering of houses
a few scattered settlements
sunshine with scattered showers
Her family are scattered around the world.
The scattergun approach to marketing means that the campaign is not targeted at particular individuals.
Much of their furniture was scavenged from other people's garbage.
Dogs and foxes scavenged through the trash cans for something to eat.
Crows scavenge carrion left on the roads.
Some fish scavenge on dead fish in the wild.
Let me suggest a possible scenario.
The worst-case scenario (= the worst possible thing that could happen) would be for the factory to be closed down.
a nightmare scenario
the scene of the accident/attack/crime
Firefighters were on the scene immediately.
The team's victory produced scenes of joy all over the country.
She witnessed some very distressing scenes.
The movie opens with a scene in a New York apartment.
love/sex scenes
I got very nervous before my big scene (= the one where I have a very important part).
Act I, Scene 2 of 'Macbeth'
After years at the top, she just vanished from the scene.
the club/dance/music, etc. scene
A newcomer has appeared on the fashion scene.
a delightful rural scene
They went abroad for a change of scene (= to see and experience new surroundings).
an exhibition of Parisian street scenes
She had made a scene in the middle of the party.
'Please leave,' he said. 'I don't want a scene.'
His arrival set the scene for another argument.
The first part of the programme was just setting the scene.
a scene-of-crime officer
The scenery is magnificent.
to enjoy the scenery
an area of scenic beauty
They took the scenic route back to the hotel.
a scenic drive
scenic designs
scenically attractive areas
The air was filled with the scent of wild flowers.
These flowers have no scent.
The dogs must have lost her scent.
a bottle of scent
The scent of victory was in the air.
The dog scented a rabbit.
The press could scent a scandal.
By then, the team was scenting victory.
Roses scented the night air.
I am sceptical about his chances of winning.
The public remain sceptical of these claims.
She looked highly sceptical.
Such claims should be regarded with a certain amount of scepticism.
I have a hectic schedule for the next few days.
We're working to a tight schedule (= we have a lot of things to do in a short time).
Filming began on schedule (= at the planned time).
The new bridge has been finished two years ahead of schedule.
The tunnel project has already fallen behind schedule.
a train schedule
Chinese will be on the school schedule from next year.
The channel's schedules are filled with old films and repeats.
tax schedules
The meeting is scheduled for Friday afternoon.
One of the scheduled events is a talk on alternative medicine.
We'll be stopping here for longer than scheduled.
I'm scheduled to arrive in LA at 5 o'clock.
The substance has been scheduled as a poison.
The President's schedulers allowed 90 minutes for TV interviews.
a schematic diagram
The play has a very schematic plot.
The process is shown schematically in figure 3.
schematized data
a training scheme
a local scheme for recycling newspapers
to introduce/operate a scheme to improve links between schools and industry
Under the new scheme only successful schools will be given extra funding.
an elaborate scheme to avoid taxes
She seemed to feel that we were all scheming against her.
His colleagues, meanwhile, were busily scheming to get rid of him.
Her enemies were scheming her downfall.
What do you scheme?
'Do you think he'll come?' 'I scheme so.'
schizoid tendencies
I'm not schlepping these suitcases all over town.
a low-budget schlocky film
They sent some poor schlub who'd never driven before to pick me up at the airport.
schmick clothes
a schmick car
He's such a schmuck!
a classical scholar
He was the most distinguished scholar in his field.
a Rhodes scholar
I was never much of a scholar.
a scholarly journal
She won a scholarship to study at Stanford.
He went to drama school on a scholarship.
a magnificent work of scholarship
scholastic achievements
My brother and I went to the same school.
(formal) Which school do they attend?
I'm going to the school today to talk to Kim's teacher.
We need more money for roads, hospitals and schools.
school buildings
to start/leave school
(NAmE) to start/quit school
Where did you go to school?
(BrE) All my kids are still at school.
(NAmE) All my kids are still in school.
(NAmE) to teach school (= teach in a school)
The transition from school to work can be difficult.
Shall I meet you after school today?
School begins at 9.
The kids are at/in school until 3.30.
after-school activities
I had to stand up in front of the whole school.
a drama/language/riding, etc. school
famous schools like Yale and Harvard
Where did you go to school?
the business/medical/law school
the School of Dentistry
the Dutch school of painting
There are two schools of thought about how this illness should be treated.
to school a horse
She had schooled herself in patience.
I have schooled myself to remain calm under pressure.
She should be schooled with her peers.
children of school age
school-age children
She met up with some of her old (= former) school friends.
the problem of rising unemployment among school-leavers
She hadn't seen Laura since her schooldays.
secondary schooling
He had very little schooling.
She is struggling to keep up with her schoolwork.
I was given a lot of marketing schwag at the conference.
new developments in science and technology
the advance of modern science
the laws of science
science students/teachers/courses
to study one of the sciences
a science of international politics
a scientific discovery
scientific knowledge
sites of scientific interest
He took a very scientific approach to management.
We need to be more scientific about this problem.
a research scientist
nuclear scientists
scientists and engineers
the cartoon figure of the mad scientist working in his laboratory
There is not a scintilla of truth in what she says.
a scintillating performance
Statistics on unemployment levels hardly make for scintillating reading.
That line isn't in the original script.
She admired his neat script.
a document in Cyrillic script
The bug was caused by an error in the script.
a pair of scissors
The legs move in a scissor action.
He scoffed at our amateurish attempts.
Don't scoff—she's absolutely right.
Who scoffed all the grapes?
He scolded them for arriving late.
I got a scolding from my mother.
Use the arrow keys to scroll through the list of files.
Scroll down to the bottom of the document.
Use the arrow keys to scroll the list of files.
She scooched over so that he could sit down next to her.
I had to scooch between the wall and the sofa to reach the plug.
She scooched down behind a car so that he couldn't see her.
Use an ice-cream scoop.
two scoops of mashed potato
I got the inside scoop on his new girlfriend.
She scooped ice cream into their bowls.
First, scoop a hole in the soil.
Scoop out the melon flesh.
He quickly scooped the money up from the desk.
She scooped the child up in her arms.
The paper had inside information and scooped all its rivals.
He scooped £10 000 on the lottery.
a scooped neck/neckline
I'd better scoot or I'll be late.
There's still plenty of scope for improvement.
Her job offers very little scope for promotion.
The extra money will give us the scope to improve our facilities.
First try to do something that is within your scope.
Our powers are limited in scope.
This subject lies beyond the scope of our investigation.
These issues were outside the scope of the article.
microscope
telescope
His eyes scoped the room, trying to spot her in the crowd.
The information helped us scope the project.
Don't stand so near the fire—your coat is scorching!
scorched grass
The leaves will scorch if you water them in the sun.
The car scorched off down the road.
a scorcher of a free kick
a scorching critique of the government's economic policy
a high/low score
What's the score now?
The final score was 4–3.
I'll keep (the) score.
test scores
an IQ score of 120
a perfect score
an orchestral score
the score of Verdi's 'Requiem'
an award for best original score
Several cabs and a score of cars were parked outside.
Doyle's success brought imitators by the score (= very many).
the biblical age of three score years and ten (= 70)
There were scores of boxes and crates, all waiting to be checked and loaded.
What's the score?
You don't have to lie to me. I know the score.
Fraser scored again in the second half.
to score a goal/try/touchdown/victory
Who's going to score?
She scored 98% in the French test.
Girls usually score highly in language exams.
The tests are scored by psychologists.
Score each criterion on a scale of 1 to 5.
a scoring system
Each correct answer will score two points.
The army continued to score successes in the south.
She's scored again with her latest blockbuster.
Bicycles score over other forms of transport in towns.
The piece is scored for violin, viola and cello.
The director invited him to score the movie (= write the music for it).
Score the card first with a knife.
Did you score last night?
He was always trying to score off his teachers.
Her name had been scored out on the list.
a scoreless draw
a 2–1 scoreline
The team did not play as badly as the scoreline suggests.
United's top scorer
Her fellow teachers greeted her proposal with scorn.
They had nothing but scorn for his political views.
She scorned their views as old-fashioned.
to scorn an invitation
She would have scorned to stoop to such tactics.
a scornful laugh
He was scornful of such 'female' activities as cooking.
She laughed scornfully.
Scottish dancing
the Scottish parliament
a well-known Scots poet
a slight Scots accent
The Scots won their match against England.
They got off scot-free because of lack of evidence.
Plans for a merger have been scotched.
Rumours that he had fled the country were promptly scotched by his wife.
a bottle of Scotch
Do you want a Scotch?
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad
Scotland Yard has/have been called in.
He spoke with a Scots accent.
She comes from an old Scots family.
the Scottish Highlands
We scoured the area for somewhere to pitch our tent.
I had to scour out the pans.
The water had raced down the slope and scoured out the bed of a stream.
the scourge of war/disease/poverty
Inflation was the scourge of the 1970s.
He lay awake, scourged by his conscience.
a Scouse accent
to join the Scouts
Both my brothers were scouts.
a scout troop
They scouted the area for somewhere to stay the night.
The kids were scouting around for wood for the fire.
a military scouting party
He scouts for Manchester United.
We went ahead to scout out the lie of the land.
He looked up at me with a scowl.
She scrabbled around in her bag for her glasses.
He was scrabbling for a foothold on the steep slope.
a sound like rats scrabbling on the other side of the wall
a scraggy old cat
a scraggly beard
Scram! I don't want you here.
She managed to scramble over the wall.
He scrambled to his feet as we came in.
The audience scrambled for the exits.
Shoppers were scrambling to get the best bargains.
Cork scrambled a 1–0 win over Monaghan.
Rooney managed to scramble the ball into the net.
scrambled eggs
scrambled satellite signals
Alcohol seemed to have scrambled his brain.
A helicopter was scrambled to help rescue three young climbers.
They scrambled as soon as the call came through.
There was a mad scramble for the best seats.
She scribbled his phone number on a scrap of paper.
(figurative) scraps of information
(figurative) She was just a scrap of a thing (= small and thin).
It won't make a scrap of difference.
There's not a scrap of evidence to support his claim.
a barren landscape without a scrap of vegetation
Give the scraps to the dog.
We sold the car for scrap (= so that any good parts can be used again).
scrap metal
a scrap dealer (= a person who buys and sells scrap )
He was always getting into scraps at school.
They had been forced to scrap plans for a new school building.
The oldest of the aircraft were scrapped.
The bigger boys started scrapping.
She scraped the mud off her boots.
The kids had scraped their plates clean.
She fell and scraped her knee.
I scraped the side of my car on the wall.
Sorry, I've scraped some paint off the car.
The wire had scraped the skin from her fingers.
I could hear his pen scraping across the paper.
We could hear her scraping away at the violin.
Don't scrape your chairs on the floor.
The team scraped a narrow victory last year.
(BrE) I just scraped a pass in the exam.
They scraped a living by playing music on the streets.
The government scraped home (= just won) by three votes.
He found a suitable place, scraped a hole and buried the bag in it.
Her hair was scraped back from her face in a ponytail.
I can just scrape by on what my parents give me.
He scraped in with 180 votes.
Our team just scraped into the semi-finals.
Scrape out the flesh of the melon with a spoon.
I might scrape through the exam if I'm lucky.
We managed to scrape together eight volunteers.
the scrape of iron on stone
She emerged from the overturned car with only a few scrapes and bruises.
He was always getting into scrapes as a boy.
a scrappy essay
The note was written on a scrappy bit of paper.
John yawned and scratched his chin.
The dog scratched itself behind the ear.
Try not to scratch.
She scratched at the insect bites on her arm.
I'd scratched my leg and it was bleeding.
Does the cat scratch?
She scratched herself on a nail.
Be careful not to scratch the furniture.
The car's paintwork is badly scratched.
They scratched lines in the dirt to mark out a pitch.
We scratched some of the dirt away.
(figurative) You can scratch my name off the list.
His pen scratched away on the paper.
to scratch a rocket launch
The horse was scratched from the race because of injury.
She had scratched because of a knee injury.
Her hands were covered in scratches from the brambles.
a scratch on the paintwork
It's only a scratch (= a very slight injury).
He escaped without a scratch (= was not hurt at all).
Go on, have a good scratch!
His work simply isn't up to scratch.
It'll take months to bring the band up to scratch.
a scratch team
a scratch player
a scratchy recording of Mario Lanza
a scratchy pen
I tried to read his directions, scrawled on a piece of paper.
Someone had scrawled all over my notes.
Her signature was an illegible scrawl.
I can't be expected to read this scrawl!
The paper was covered in scrawls.
He covered her mouth to stop her from screaming.
The kids were screaming with excitement.
People ran for the exits, screaming out in terror.
The baby was screaming itself hoarse.
'Help!' she screamed.
Someone was screaming for help.
He screamed at me to stop.
She screamed abuse at him.
His sister screamed out that he was crazy.
Lights flashed and sirens screamed.
The powerboat screamed out to sea.
These books scream out to be included in a list of favourites.
She let out a scream of pain.
They ignored the baby's screams.
He drove off with a scream of tyres.
He's a scream.
It was screamingly obvious what we should do next.
Monkeys were screeching in the trees.
The wind screeched in his ears.
screeching brakes
He screeched with pain.
'No, don't!' she screeched.
He screeched something at me.
The car screeched to a halt outside the hospital.
A police car screeched out of a side street.
a screech of brakes/tyres
She suddenly let out a screech.
a computer screen
a monitor with a 21 inch screen
They were staring at the television screen.
Move your cursor to the top of the screen.
the screen display
Can you do a printout of this screen for me (= of all the information on it)?
Press the F1 key to display a help screen.
a cinema/movie screen
an eight-screen cinema
The movie will be coming to your screens shortly.
He has adapted the play for the screen.
Some actors never watch themselves on screen.
She was a star of stage and screen (= plays and films/movies).
a screen actor
The nurse put a screen around the bed.
We planted a screen of tall trees.
(figurative) All the research was conducted behind a screen of secrecy.
screen doors
Dark glasses screened his eyes from the sun.
Men over 55 should be regularly screened for prostate cancer.
Government employees may be screened by the security services.
I use my voicemail to screen my phone calls.
a list of films to be screened as part of the festival
Beds can be screened off to give patients more privacy.
The ozone layer screens out dangerous rays from the sun.
This will be the movie's first screening in this country.
breast cancer screening
One of the screws is loose.
Now tighten all the screws.
a good screw
The bookcase is screwed to the wall.
You need to screw all the parts together.
Now screw down the lid.
She screwed the cap back on the jar.
Screw the bolt tight.
The bulb should just screw into the socket.
The lid simply screws on.
I screwed up the letter and threw it into the fire.
Screw the foil into a little ball.
We've been screwed.
How much did they screw you for (= how much did you have to pay)?
They screwed the money out of her by threats.
You really screwed up there!
Her father's death really screwed her up.
to screw up a crate
I screwed up the jar and put it back on the shelf.
Don't screw it up this time.
He took a sip of the medicine and screwed up his face.
screwcap bottles/wine
an extremely screwed-up kid
a screwed-up tissue
He scribbled a note to his sister before leaving.
She scribbled down her phone number and pushed it into his hand.
Throughout the interview the journalists scribbled away furiously.
Someone had scribbled all over the table in crayon.
How do you expect me to read this scribble?
The page was covered with a mass of scribbles.
They scrimped and saved to give the children a good education.
a scripted talk
Hindu scriptures
scriptural references
He's always scrounging free meals off us.
What is she scrounging for this time?
a campaign against welfare scroungers
I found him in the kitchen, scrubbing the floor.
She scrubbed the counters down with bleach.
The woman scrubbed at her face with a tissue.
Scrub the vegetables clean.
This treatment involves scrubbing off the top layer of dead skin.
I've given the floor a good scrub.
The bird disappeared into the scrub.
a scrubby hillside
scrubby vegetation
He looked a little scruffy.
scruffy pair of jeans
There was a real scrum when the bus arrived.
a scrummy cake
The snow scrunched underfoot.
He scrunched up the note and threw it on the fire.
The hedgehog scrunched itself up into a ball.
the scrunch of tyres on the gravel
I overcame my moral scruples.
He had no scruples about spying on her.
She is totally without scruple.
You must be scrupulous about hygiene when you're preparing a baby's feed.
scrupulous attention to detail
He was scrupulous in all his business dealings.
Her house is scrupulously clean.
to be scrupulously honest
Her argument doesn't really stand up to scrutiny.
Foreign policy has come under close scrutiny recently.
The documents should be available for public scrutiny.
She leaned forward to scrutinize their faces.
The statement was carefully scrutinized before publication.
to go scuba-diving
I scuffed the heel of my shoe on the stonework.
After only one day, his shoes were already scuffed and dirty.
Scuffles broke out between police and demonstrators.
She scuffled with photographers as she left her hotel.
Some animal was scuffling in the bushes.
He could hear whispering and scuffling on the other side of the door.
single/double sculls (= with one/two people in each boat)
a display of animals sculpted in ice
The figures were sculpted from single blocks of marble.
a coastline sculpted by the wind and sea
a marble sculpture of Venus
He collects modern sculpture.
the techniques of sculpture in stone
sculptural decoration
sculptured cheekbones
Skim off any scum.
stinking water covered by a thick green scum
Don't waste your sympathy on scum like that.
Drug dealers are the scum of the earth (= the worst people there are).
scummy water
scummy people dropping litter
The residents' protests scuppered his plans for developing the land.
She said goodbye and scurried back to work.
Ants scurried around the pile of rotting food.
scurrilous rumours
She scuttled off when she heard the sound of his voice.
He held his breath as a rat scuttled past.
Shareholders successfully scuttled the deal.
the scent of newly scythed grass
SE Asia
to travel by sea
a cottage by the sea
The waste was dumped in the sea.
The wreck is lying at the bottom of the sea.
We left port and headed for the open sea (= far away from land).
the cold seas of the Arctic
a sea voyage
a hotel room with sea view
the North Sea
the Caspian Sea
It was a calm sea.
The sea was very rough.
He looked down at the sea of smiling faces before him.
a breath of sea air
It won't take you long to find your sea legs.
50 metres above sea level
Australia's eastern seaboard
a seaborne invasion
a long search for the murder weapon
Detectives carried out a thorough search of the building.
She went into the kitchen in search of (= looking for) a drink.
The search for a cure goes on.
The search is on (= has begun) for someone to fill the post.
Eventually the search was called off.
a search and rescue team
to do a search on the Internet
Their main service, Internet search, is free to users.
She searched in vain for her passport.
Police searched for clues in the area.
The customs officers searched through our bags.
I've searched high and low for those files.
His house had clearly been searched and the book was missing.
Police searched the area for clues.
Firefighters searched the buildings for survivors.
searching the Web for interesting sites
Visitors are regularly searched as they enter the building.
The youths were arrested and searched for anything that would incriminate them.
He searched desperately for something to say.
'Why didn't she say anything?' 'Search me!'
Fighter pilots searched out and attacked enemy aircraft.
a seafaring nation
a seafood restaurant
a seafood cocktail
the grand houses along the seafront
a flock of seagulls
Make sure you've signed the cheque before sealing the envelope.
a sealed bid (= one that is kept in a sealed envelope and therefore remains secret until all other bids have been received)
The organs are kept in sealed plastic bags.
The floors had been stripped and sealed with varnish.
to seal a contract
They drank a glass of wine to seal their new friendship.
The discovery of new evidence sealed his fate (= nothing could prevent what was going to happen to him).
Troops have sealed the borders between the countries.
The body was sealed in a lead coffin.
The letter bore the president's seal.
The project has been given the government's seal of approval (= official approval).
I looked upon the gift as a seal on our friendship.
a jar with a rubber seal in the lid
Only drink bottled water and check the seal isn't broken.
He broke the wax seal and unrolled the paper.
a colony of seals
grey seals basking on the rocks
Her election to the premiership set the seal on a remarkable political career.
a shoulder seam
They struck a rich seam of iron ore.
(figurative) The book is a rich seam of information.
Seaman Bates
a merchant seaman
seamed stockings
an old man with a brown seamed face
a seamy sex scandal
the seamier side of life
a seemingly stupid question
a seemingly endless journey
Seemingly, he borrowed the money from the bank.
a seamless garment
a seamless flow of talk
the Baltic seaports
The heat of the sun seared their faces.
Sear the meat first (= cook the outside of it quickly at a high temperature) to retain its juices.
The pain seared along her arm.
Feelings of guilt seared him.
a searchable database
a searching investigation/analysis/examination
He gave her a long searching look.
The police asked him some searching questions.
the searing heat of a tropical summer
searing pain
a searing attack on the government
to be/feel/get seasick
a day at/by the seaside
a seaside vacation home
the changing seasons
the cricket/hunting/shooting, etc. season
He scored his first goal of the season on Saturday.
The female changes colour during the breeding season.
The hotels are always full during the peak season (= when most people are on holiday/vacation).
(BrE) the holiday season
(NAmE) the tourist season
(NAmE) the holiday season (= the time of Thanksgiving, Hanukkah, Christmas and New Year)
(BrE) the festive season (= Christmas and New Year)
The play opens for a second season in London next week.
a season of films by Alfred Hitchcock
This season's look is soft and romantic.
Season the lamb with garlic.
Add the mushrooms, and season to taste (= add as much salt, pepper, etc. as you think is necessary).
an annual/a monthly/a weekly season ticket
a season ticket holder
seasonable temperatures
seasonal workers brought in to cope with the Christmas period
seasonal variations in unemployment figures
seasonal decorations
seasonally adjusted unemployment figures (= not including the changes that always happen in different seasons)
a high degree of climatic seasonality
a seasoned campaigner/performer/traveller, etc.
The sausage was very highly seasoned.
She sat back in her seat.
He put his shopping on the seat behind him.
Please take a seat (= sit down).
Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats (= sit down).
a window/corner seat (= one near a window/in a corner)
a child seat (= for a child in a car)
Would you prefer a window seat or an aisle seat?(= on a plane)
We used the branch of an old tree as a seat.
We all filed back to our seats in silence.
a ten-seater minibus
an all-seater stadium (= in which nobody is allowed to stand)
a steel chair with a plastic seat
to book/reserve a seat (= for a concert, etc.)
There are no seats left on that flight.
a seat on the city council/in Parliament/in Congress
to win/lose a seat (= in an election)
(BrE) to take your seat (= to begin your duties, especially in Parliament)
The majority of seats on the board will be held by business representatives.
Washington is the seat of government of the US.
a university town renowned as a seat of learning
the family seat in Norfolk
Please wait to be seated (= in a restaurant, etc.).
Please be seated (= sit down).
He seated himself behind the desk.
The aircraft seats 200 passengers.
Fasten your seat belts.
The theatre has seating for about 500 people.
The room had a seating capacity of over 200.
the seating arrangements for the conference
the seaward side of the coastal road
Her gaze was fixed seawards.
the sebaceous glands in the skin
Stay there. I'll be back in a sec.
Hang on (= wait) a sec.
a pair of secateurs
The Republic of Panama seceded from Colombia in 1903.
a military campaign against the secessionists
a secluded garden/beach/spot, etc.
to lead a secluded life
the seclusion and peace of the island
This is the second time it's happened.
Italy scored a second goal just after half-time.
the second of June/June 2nd
He was the second to arrive.
We have one child and are expecting our second in July.
Osaka is Japan's second-largest city.
Birmingham, the UK's second city
The spreadsheet application is second only to word processing in terms of popularity.
As a dancer, he is second to none (= nobody is a better dancer than he is).
They have a second home in Tuscany.
She came second in the marathon.
One of the smaller parties came a close second (= nearly won).
I agreed to speak second.
He is a writer first and a scientist second.
I came second (to) last (= the one before the last one) in the race.
She did it first because she wanted to, and second because I asked her to.
She can run 100 metres in just over 11 seconds.
For several seconds he did not reply.
The light flashes every 5 seconds.
The water flows at about 1.5 metres per second.
I'll be with you in a second.
They had finished in/within seconds.
1° 6′ 10″ (= one degree, six minutes and ten seconds)
Seconds, anybody?
When it's icy, move off in second.
Any proposal must be seconded by two other members of the committee.
(informal) 'Thank God that's finished.' 'I'll second that!(= I agree) '
Each year two teachers are seconded to industry for six months.
They met while she was on secondment from the Foreign Office.
The two teams seemed evenly matched but Arsenal came off second best (= lost).
my second-best suit
a second-best solution
Sometimes you have to settle for (= be content with) second best.
ESL or English as a Second Language
His second name is Willem, after his grandfather.
In the phrase 'you are', the verb 'are' is in the second person and the word 'you' is a second-person pronoun.
Older people should not be treated as second-class citizens.
a second-class education
second-class carriages/compartments/passengers
second-class letters/stamps
Applicants should have at least a second-class honours degree.
to send a letter second class
to travel second class
She was a second-generation Japanese-American.
second-generation handheld computers
It was impossible to second-guess the decision of the jury.
a second-hand bookshop (= for selling second-hand books)
(especially BrE) second-hand cars
second-hand opinions
I bought the camera second-hand.
I only heard about it second-hand.
a second-rate player
a second-string quarterback
Wilson was a second string for New Zealand in last week's match.
That is just a secondary consideration.
Experience is what matters—age is of secondary importance.
Raising animals was only secondary to other forms of farming.
a secondary infection
a secondary effect
a secondary colour (= made from mixing two primary colours)
secondary teachers
the secondary curriculum
Their clothing is primarily functional and only secondarily decorative.
primary and secondary education
Firstly, it's expensive, and secondly, it's too slow.
a legal/medical secretary
Please contact my secretary to make an appointment.
the membership secretary
Secretary of the Treasury
secret information/meetings/talks
He tried to keep it secret from his family.
Details of the proposals remain secret.
a secret passage leading to the beach
He's a secret drinker.
her secret fears
a secret room
They were so secret about everything.
Jessica caught a secret smile flitting between the two of them.
The police had secretly filmed the conversations.
She was secretly pleased to see him.
The location of the ship is a closely guarded secret.
Shall we let him in on (= tell him) the secret?
He made no secret of his ambition (= he didn't try to hide it).
She was dismissed for revealing trade secrets.
official/State secrets
Careful planning is the secret of success.
She still looks so young. What's her secret?
the secrets of the universe
the need for absolute secrecy in this matter
Everyone involved was sworn to secrecy.
The whole affair is still shrouded in secrecy.
secretarial work
the Secretary of State for Education
the Education Secretary
the Foreign Secretary
the former Secretary General of NATO
Insulin is secreted by the pancreas.
The drugs were secreted in the lining of his case.
the secretion of bile by the liver
bodily secretions
He's very secretive about his work.
sectarian attacks/violence
attempts to break down the sectarian divide in Northern Ireland
That section of the road is still closed.
The library has a large biology section.
the tail section of the plane
The shed comes in sections that you assemble yourself.
These issues will be discussed more fully in the next section.
the sports section of the newspaper
an issue that will affect large sections of the population
the brass section of an orchestra
He's the director of the finance section.
the Dorchester section of Boston
The illustration shows a section through a leaf.
The architect drew the house in section.
The surgeon performed a section (= made a cut) on the vein.
to examine a section from the kidney
Parts of the town had been sectioned off.
the sectional interests of managers and workers
a sectional building
a sectional drawing
the manufacturing sector
service-sector jobs (= in hotels, restaurants, etc.)
each sector of the war zone
secular music
Ours is a secular society.
a secularized society
At last they were able to feel secure about the future.
She finished the match, secure in the knowledge that she was through to the next round.
a secure job/income
It's not a very secure way to make a living.
The future of the company looks secure.
Information must be stored so that it is secure from accidental deletion.
Check that all windows and doors have been made as secure as possible.
a secure unit for child offenders
The aerial doesn't look very secure to me.
It was difficult to maintain a secure foothold on the ice.
(figurative) Our relationship was now on a more secure footing.
She locked the door securely behind her.
Make sure the ropes are securely fastened.
to secure a contract/deal
The team managed to secure a place in the finals.
She secured 2 000 votes.
He secured a place for himself at law school.
He secured himself a place at law school.
She secured the rope firmly to the back of the car.
to secure a property against intruders
The windows were secured with locks and bars.
(figurative) a savings plan that will secure your child's future
a loan secured on the house
national security (= the defence of a country)
airport security
They carried out security checks at the airport.
The visit took place amidst tight security (= the use of many police officers).
the security forces/services (= the police, army, etc.)
a high/maximum security prison (= for dangerous criminals)
Security was/were called to the incident.
My bag was emptied and searched when I went through security.
It took ages to clear security and reach the departure lounge.
financial security
Job security (= the guarantee that you will keep your job) is a thing of the past.
the security of a loving family life
She'd allowed herself to be lulled into a false sense of security (= a feeling that she was safe when in fact she was in danger).
His home and business are being held as security for the loan.
A firewall provides an essential security blanket for your computer network.
The government has thrown a security blanket around the talks.
a sedentary job/occupation/lifestyle
He became increasingly sedentary in later life.
Rhinos are largely sedentary animals.
a sedentary population
the sedative effect of the drug
We followed the youngsters at a more sedate pace.
a sedate country town
a sedate, sober man
Most of the patients are heavily sedated.
The victim's wife was last night being kept under sedation in the local hospital.
sedimentary rocks
seditious activity
The promise of huge profits seduced him into parting with his money.
Cleopatra's seduction of Caesar
Who could resist the seductions of the tropical island?
a seductive woman
She used her most seductive voice.
The idea of retiring to the south of France is highly seductive.
The opera was the place to see and be seen (= by other important or fashionable people).
Did you see what happened?
I hate to see you unhappy.
She was seen running away from the scene of the crime.
I saw you put the key in your pocket.
He was seen to enter the building about the time the crime was committed.
She will never see again (= she has become blind).
On a clear day you can see for miles from here.
It was getting dark and I couldn't see to read.
Did you see that programme on Brazil last night?
In the evening we went to see a movie.
Fifty thousand people saw the match.
See page 158.
Guess who I saw at the party last night!
Come and see us again soon.
You ought to see a doctor about that cough.
What is it you want to see me about?
Are you seeing anyone (= having a romantic relationship with anyone)?
They've been seeing a lot of each other (= spending a lot of time together) recently.
He didn't see the joke.
I don't think she saw the point of the story.
I can see both sides of the argument.
Make Lydia see reason (= be sensible), will you?
Can't you see (that) he's taking advantage of you?
I don't see that it matters what Josh thinks.
'It's broken.' 'Oh yes, I see what you mean.'
'Can we go swimming?' ' I don't see why not (= yes, you can).'
The government not only has to do something, it must be seen to be doing something (= people must be aware that it is doing sth).
I see things differently now.
Lack of money is the main problem, as I see it (= in my opinion).
The way I see it, you have three main problems.
'Has the mail come yet?' 'I'll just go and see.'
'Is he going to get better?' 'I don't know, we'll just have to wait and see.'
We'll have a great time, you'll see.
Go and see what the kids are doing, will you?
We'll have to see how it goes.
I see (that) interest rates are going up again.
It can be seen that certain groups are more at risk than others.
'Will you be able to help us?' 'I don't know, I'll have to see.'
'Can I go to the party?' ' We'll see (= I'll decide later).'
I'll see what I can do to help.
See that all the doors are locked before you leave.
He has seen a great deal in his long life.
I hope I never live to see the day when computers finally replace books.
It didn't surprise her—she had seen it all before.
Next year sees the centenary of Mahler's death.
This stadium has seen many thrilling football games.
I saw the old lady across (= helped her cross) the road.
May I see you home (= go with you as far as your house)?
My secretary will see you out (= show you the way out of the building).
We should have seen it coming. There was no way he could keep going under all that pressure.
If you don't believe me, go and see for yourself!
Seeing that he's been off sick all week he's unlikely to come.
You see, the thing is, we won't be finished before Friday.
I must see about (= prepare) lunch.
He says he won't help, does he? Well, we'll soon see about that (= I will demand that he does help).
I'll have to see about getting that roof repaired.
I don't know what she sees in him.
The dogs saw them off in no time.
The home team saw off the challengers by 68 points to 47.
I've had this coat for years, and I'm sure it will see me out.
They had enough fuel to see the winter out.
He saw out his career in Italy.
We need to see over the house before we can make you an offer.
We saw through him from the start.
I can see through your little game (= I am aware of the trick you are trying to play on me).
She's determined to see the job through.
Her courage and good humour saw her through.
I only have $20 to see me through the week.
Will you see to the arrangements for the next meeting?
Don't worry— I'll see to it.
We'll have to get that door seen to (= repaired).
Can you see to it that the email goes out this afternoon?
the Holy See (= the office of the Pope )
It is amazing that not one of them saw the writing on the wall.
Her emotions see-sawed from anger to fear.
Share prices see-sawed all day.
a see-through blouse
a packet of wild flower seeds
sesame seeds
Sow the seeds outdoors in spring.
These vegetables can be grown from seed.
seed potatoes (= used for planting)
the seeds of rebellion
This planted the seeds of doubt in my mind.
The top seed won comfortably.
the number one seed
a newly seeded lawn
He has been seeded 14th at Wimbledon next week.
a seeded player
seeded tomatoes
a seedy bar
the seedy world of prostitution
a seedy-looking man
seedless grapes
Drivers are advised to seek alternative routes.
(BrE) They sought in vain for somewhere to shelter.
to seek funding for a project
Highly qualified secretary seeks employment. (= in an advertisement)
We are currently seeking new ways of expanding our membership.
I think it's time we sought legal advice.
She managed to calm him down and seek help from a neighbour.
They quickly sought to distance themselves from the protesters.
attention-seeking behaviour
Voluntary work can provide a framework for job-seeking.
an attention/a publicity seeker
seekers after the truth
You seem happy.
Do whatever seems best to you.
He seems a nice man.
It seemed like a good idea at the time.
It always seemed as though they would get married.
'He'll be there, then?' ' So it seems (= people say so).'
It seems that they know what they're doing.
They seem to know what they're doing.
I seem to have left my book at home.
I can't seem to (= I've tried, but I can't) get started today.
It would seem that we all agree.
It seems only reasonable to ask students to buy a dictionary.
a seeming impossibility
She handled the matter with seeming indifference.
Blood was beginning to seep through the bandages.
Water seeped from a crack in the pipe.
(figurative) Gradually the pain seeped away.
Water gradually escapes by seepage through the ground.
oil seepages
She seethed silently in the corner.
He marched off, seething with frustration.
Inwardly he was seething at this challenge to his authority.
The resort is seething with tourists all year round.
He became caught up in a seething mass of arms and legs.
The grey ocean seethed beneath them.
She cleaned a small segment of the painting.
Lines divided the area into segments.
Market researchers often segment the population on the basis of age and social class.
The worm has a segmented body (= with different sections joined together).
a culture in which women are segregated from men
a racially segregated community
a segregated school (= one for students of one race or religion only)
In all our restaurants, smoking and non-smoking areas are segregated from each other.
racial/religious segregation
segregation by age and sex
the segregation of smokers and non-smokers in restaurants
segregationist policies
a spiritual that segued into a singalong chorus
He then segued into a discussion of atheism.
The incident sparked off a whole series of events that nobody had foreseen.
the latest in a series of articles on the nature of modern society
the World Series (= in baseball )
England have lost the Test series (= of cricket matches) against India.
seismic waves
a seismic shift in the political process
the National Seismological Institute
She tried to seize the gun from him.
He seized her by the arm.
She seized hold of my hand.
They seized the airport in a surprise attack.
The army has seized control of the country.
He seized power in a military coup.
The men were seized as they left the building.
A large quantity of drugs was seized during the raid.
The party seized the initiative with both hands (= quickly and with enthusiasm).
Panic seized her.
He was seized by curiosity.
The rumours were eagerly seized upon by the local press.
The court ordered the seizure of his assets.
the largest ever seizure of cocaine at a British port
the army's seizure of power
the seizure of Burma by Japan in 1942
The final team selection will be made tomorrow.
the random selection of numbers
selection criteria
the selection process
A selection of readers' comments is published below.
The showroom has a wide selection of kitchens.
He had seldom seen a child with so much talent.
She seldom, if ever, goes to the theatre.
They seldom watch television these days.
(literary) Seldom had he seen such beauty.
He hasn't been selected for the team.
All our hotels have been carefully selected for the excellent value they provide.
She was selected as the parliamentary candidate for Bath.
a randomly selected sample of 23 schools
selected poems of T.S. Eliot
This model is available at selected stores only.
Six theatre companies have been selected to take part in this year's festival.
Select what you want from the options available.
Select the text you want to format by holding down the left button on your mouse.
Select 'New Mail' from the 'Send' menu.
a select wine list
Only a select few (= a small number of people) have been invited to the wedding.
They live in a very select area.
a select club
'Eat' has the selectional restriction that it must be followed by a kind of food, so 'I eat sky' is not possible.
the selective breeding of cattle
selective strike action
You will have to be selective about which information to include in the report.
Their admissions policy is very selective.
a selective school (= one that chooses which children to admit, especially according to ability)
The product will be selectively marketed in the US (= only in some areas).
Schools are tending towards greater selectivity.
You'll soon be feeling your old self again (= feeling well or happy again).
He's not his usual happy self this morning.
Only with a few people could she be her real self (= show what she was really like rather than what she pretended to be).
his private/professional self (= how he behaves at home/work)
Many people living in institutions have lost their sense of self (= the feeling that they are individual people).
the inner self (= a person's emotional and spiritual character)
a lack of confidence in the self
She didn't do it for any reason of self.
You didn't hurt your little self, did you?
We look forward to seeing Mrs Brown and your good self this evening.
self-control
self-addressed
self-taught
a self-access centre/library
self-adhesive tape
cheap self-assembly kitchen units
kitchen units for self-assembly
self-build houses
self-catering accommodation
All prices are based on a week's self-catering in shared accommodation.
a self-colour carpet
a self-confessed thief
a self-confident child
a self-confident manner
He has no self-confidence.
The winners gave themselves a self-congratulatory round of applause.
He's always been self-conscious about being so short.
The humour of the play is self-conscious and contrived.
She was self-consciously aware of his stare.
Her father was a quiet self-contained man.
a self-contained community
Each chapter is self-contained and can be studied in isolation.
self-contained accommodation
to lose/regain your self-control
It took all his self-control not to shout at them.
The economic market is a self-correcting mechanism, that does not need regulation by government.
Don't be too self-critical.
Paying children too much attention when they misbehave can be self-defeating.
The man later told police that he was acting in self-defence.
I'm taking classes in self-defence.
He gave a self-deprecating shrug.
This tape will self-destruct in 30 seconds.
(figurative) In the last half hour of the movie the plot rapidly self-destructs.
Staff are encouraged to use the library for professional self-development.
It takes a lot of self-discipline to go jogging in winter.
David left his boring job to go on a journey of self-discovery.
He was a shy, self-effacing man.
a self-employed musician
retirement plans for the self-employed (= people who are self-employed)
to have high/low self-esteem
You need to build your self-esteem.
The dangers of such action are self-evident.
a self-evident truth
You should encourage your child's attempts at self-expression.
If you expect to fail, you will fail. It's a self-fulfilling prophecy.
As a teenager I was self-harming regularly.
a self-help discussion group for people suffering from depression (= whose members help each other)
to have a positive/negative self-image
self-induced vomiting
a self-inflicted wound
Not all of them were acting out of self-interest.
He was proud of the fact that he was a self-made man.
Revenge leads to a self-perpetuating cycle of violence.
She's not someone who likes to wallow in self-pity.
He soon recovered his usual self-possession.
She was held back by some sense of self-preservation.
The article was a piece of blatant self-promotion.
He suffers from a lack of self-regard.
His biography is nothing but self-regarding nonsense.
a self-regulating economy
No self-respecting journalist would ever work for that newspaper.
She exercised all her self-restraint and kept quiet.
the courage and self-sacrifice of those who fought in the war
He had a self-satisfied smirk on his face.
a look of self-satisfaction
a self-selecting group
The cafe provides quick self-service at low prices.
self-storage facilities/units
self-study materials
The country is totally self-sufficient in food production.
a self-taught artist
selfish behaviour
Do you think I'm being selfish by not letting her go?
What a selfish thing to do!
It was selfish of him to leave all the work to you.
She looked forward, a little selfishly, to a weekend away from her family.
a life of selfless service to the community
Jane had been wondering that selfsame thing.
I sold my car to James for £800.
I sold James my car for £800.
They sold the business at a profit/loss (= they gained/lost money when they sold it).
We offered them a good price but they wouldn't sell.
Most supermarkets sell a range of organic products.
Do you sell stamps?
to sell insurance
The magazine sells 300 000 copies a week.
The book sold well and was reprinted many times.
The new design just didn't sell (= nobody bought it).
The pens sell for just 50p each.
You may not like it but advertising sells.
It is quality not price that sells our products.
Now we have to try and sell the idea to management.
You really have to sell yourself at a job interview.
The Church sold off the land for housing.
She managed the business for a year and then sold it on.
He's a talented screenwriter who has sold out to TV soap operas.
The company eventually sold out to a multinational media group.
The band only played for about half an hour—it was a real sell.
This milk is past its sell-by date.
(figurative) These policies are way past their sell-by date.
Next week's final looks like being a sell-out.
a sell-out tour
The workers see the deal as a union sell-out to management.
a flower seller
The law is intended to protect both the buyer and the seller.
This particular model is one of our biggest sellers.
The price is obviously one of the main selling points.
Sales departments try to identify a product's USP or 'unique selling point'.
We found a note sellotaped to the front door.
a roll of Sellotape
The envelope was stuck down with Sellotape.
semantically related words
The ceasefire brought about a semblance of peace.
Life at last returned to some semblance of normality.
the spring/fall semester
suburban semis
semicircular
semi-final
He's through to the semi-final of the men's singles.
They are semi-finalists for the fourth year in succession.
a semi-skilled machine operator
semi-skilled jobs (= for people who have some special training)
a semicircle of chairs
We sat in a semicircle round the fire.
a semicircular driveway
a seminal work/article/study
seminal fluid
Teaching is by lectures and seminars.
a graduate seminar
a seminar room
a one-day management seminar
semiotic analysis
Sen. John K Nordqvist
a member of the Senate
a Senate committee
the senate of Loughborough University
Senator McCarthy
She has served as a Democratic senator for North Carolina since 2009.
a senatorial candidate
the five senses
Dogs have a keen (= strong) sense of smell.
the sense organs (= eyes, ears, nose, etc.)
I could hardly believe the evidence of my own senses (= what I could see, hear, etc.).
The mixture of sights, smells and sounds around her made her senses reel.
He felt an overwhelming sense of loss.
a strong sense of purpose/identity/duty, etc.
Helmets can give cyclists a false sense of security.
I had the sense that he was worried about something.
One of the most important things in a partner is a sense of humour (= the ability to find things funny or make people laugh).
He has a very good sense of direction (= finds the way to a place easily).
She has lost all sense of direction in her life.
Always try to keep a sense of proportion (= of the relative importance of different things).
a sense of rhythm/timing
Alex doesn't have any dress sense (= does not know which clothes look attractive).
You should have the sense to take advice when it is offered.
There's no sense in (= it is not sensible) worrying about it now.
Can't you talk sense (= say sth sensible)?
There's a lot of sense in what Mary says.
If she threatens to leave, it should bring him to his senses.
He waited for Dora to come to her senses and return.
(old-fashioned) Are you out of your senses? You'll be killed!
(old-fashioned) Why does she want to marry him? She must have taken leave of her senses.
The word 'love' is used in different senses by different people.
education in its broadest sense
He was a true friend, in every sense of the word (= in every possible way).
In a sense (= in one way) it doesn't matter any more.
In some senses (= in one or more ways) the criticisms were justified.
(formal) In no sense can the issue be said to be resolved.
There is a sense in which we are all to blame for the tragedy.
She gave me some very sensible advice.
It wasn't very sensible to go out on your own so late at night.
a soap for sensitive skin
This movie may upset a sensitive child.
Sensing danger, they started to run.
Lisa sensed that he did not believe her.
Thomas, she sensed, could convince anyone of anything.
He sensed someone moving around behind him.
He sensed something move in the bushes.
She could sense how nervous he was.
equipment that senses the presence of toxic gases
to send a letter/package/cheque/fax/email
She sent the letter by airmail.
(BrE) to send sth by post
(NAmE) to send sth by mail
A radio signal was sent to the spacecraft.
The CD player was faulty so we sent it back to the manufacturers.
Have you sent a postcard to your mother yet?
Have you sent your mother a postcard yet?
I'll send you a text message.
My parents send their love.
What sort of message is that sending to young people?
He sent me word to come.
She sent word (that) she could not come.
(formal) She sent to say that she was coming home.
Ed couldn't make it so they sent me instead.
She sent the kids to bed early.
to send sb to prison/boarding school
I've sent Tom to buy some milk.
Every step he took sent the pain shooting up his leg.
The punch sent him flying.
The report sent share prices down a further 8p.
Her music always sends me to sleep.
Her account of the visit sent us into fits of laughter.
All the publicity nearly sent him crazy.
Send for a doctor, quickly!
His son found him and sent for help.
She sent for the latest sales figures.
He opened his mouth and sent forth a stream of noise.
Troops were sent in to restore order.
Have you sent in your application yet?
I've sent off for some books for my course.
Bale was sent off for a foul in the second half.
I'm sending the files off to my boss tomorrow.
We sent our furniture on by ship.
They arranged for the information to be sent on to us.
Let's send out for a pizza.
Have the invitations been sent out yet?
a TV programme that sends up politicians
If undelivered, please return to sender.
I think she's going senile.
an old man on the verge of senility
a senior officer/manager/lecturer
a senior partner in a law firm
a senior post/position
I have ten years' experience at senior management level.
(BrE) Junior nurses usually work alongside more senior nurses.
He is senior to me.
The meeting should be chaired by the most senior person present.
to take part in senior competitions
He won the senior men's 400 metres.
Get one third off rail fares with a senior railcard.
senior discounts/concessions
the senior prom
She was ten years his senior.
My brother is my senior by two years.
She felt unappreciated both by her colleagues and her seniors.
tennis coaching for juniors and seniors
high school seniors
It was an important meeting and a bad time to have a senior moment.
a position of seniority
a lawyer with five years' seniority
Should promotion be based on merit or seniority?
She's a sensible sort of person.
I think that's a very sensible idea.
Say something sensible.
I think the sensible thing would be to take a taxi home.
sensible shoes
I am sensible of the fact that mathematics is not a popular subject.
to behave sensibly
He decided, very sensibly, not to drive when he was so tired.
She's always very sensibly dressed.
a tingling/burning, etc. sensation
I had a sensation of falling, as if in a dream.
She seemed to have lost all sensation in her arms.
He had the eerie sensation of being watched.
When I arrived, I had the sensation that she had been expecting me.
News of his arrest caused a sensation.
The band became a sensation overnight.
The result was a sensational 4–1 victory.
You look sensational in that dress!
They won sensationally against the top team.
The incident was sensationally reported in the press.
He's sensationally good-looking!
sensationalist headlines
senseless violence
His death was a senseless waste of life.
It's senseless to continue any further.
He was beaten senseless.
She drank herself senseless.
The police blamed senseless drivers who went too fast.
a man of impeccable manners, charm and sensibility
artistic sensibility
The article offended her religious sensibilities.
People are becoming more sensitized to the dangers threatening the environment.
a sensitive and caring man
She is very sensitive to other people's feelings.
an actor's sensitive reading of the poem
a sensitive portrait
You're far too sensitive.
He's very sensitive about his weight.
She's very sensitive to criticism.
Health care is a politically sensitive issue.
sensitive areas of the body
My teeth are very sensitive to cold food.
a sensitive instrument
(figurative) The Stock Exchange is very sensitive to political change.
She handled the matter sensitively.
He writes sensitively.
sensitivity to the needs of children
She pointed out with tact and sensitivity exactly where he had gone wrong.
She played with great sensitivity.
He's a mixture of anger and sensitivity.
She was blind to the feelings and sensitivities of other people.
Confidentiality is important because of the sensitivity of the information.
food sensitivity
allergies and sensitivities
Some children develop a sensitivity to cow's milk.
The eyes of some fish have a greater sensitivity to light than ours do.
the sensitivity of the test
security lights with an infrared sensor (= that come on when a person is near them)
sensory organs
sensory deprivation
sensual pleasure
sensual lips
He was darkly sensual and mysterious.
the sensuality of his poetry
sensuous music
I'm drawn to the poetic, sensuous qualities of her paintings.
his full sensuous lips
a jail/prison sentence
a light/heavy sentence
to be under sentence of death
The judge passed sentence (= said what the punishment would be).
The prisoner has served (= completed) his sentence and will be released tomorrow.
to be sentenced to death/life imprisonment/three years in prison
In 'Luckily, I didn't tell anyone' and 'Financially, we have a serious problem', 'luckily' and 'financially' are sentence adverbs.
The judge was considered a tough sentencer.
Man is a sentient being.
the spread of nationalist sentiments
This is a sentiment I wholeheartedly agree with.
Public sentiment is against any change to the law.
There was no fatherly affection, no display of sentiment.
There is no room for sentiment in business.
She kept the letters for sentimental reasons.
The ring wasn't worth very much but it had great sentimental value.
a slushy, sentimental love story
He's not the sort of man who gets sentimental about old friendships.
Jackie was careful not to sentimentalize country life.
(figurative) a tall round tower standing sentinel over the river
to be on sentry duty
The moral question is not entirely separable from the financial one.
The phrasal verb 'tear up' is separable because you can say 'She tore the letter up' or 'She tore up the letter'.
separate bedrooms
Raw meat must be kept separate from cooked meat.
The school is housed in two separate buildings.
It happened on three separate occasions.
For the past three years they have been leading totally separate lives.
Japan's long-standing sense of separateness and uniqueness
Stir the sauce constantly so that it does not separate.
Separate the eggs (= separate the yolk from the white).
It is impossible to separate belief from emotion.
Make a list of points and separate them into 'desirable' and 'essential'.
South America and Africa separated 200 million years ago.
South America separated from Africa 200 million years ago.
We separated into several different search parties.
Police tried to separate the two men who were fighting.
The war separated many families.
Those suffering from infectious diseases were separated from the other patients.
A thousand kilometres separates the two cities.
A high wall separated our back yard from the playing field.
They separated last year.
He separated from his wife after 20 years of marriage.
Politics is the only thing that separates us (= that we disagree about).
The judges found it impossible to separate the two contestants (= they gave them equal scores).
Only four points separate the top three teams.
to separate out different meanings
Her parents are separated but not divorced.
He's been separated from his wife for a year.
They were photographed separately and then as a group.
Last year's figures are shown separately.
the state's eventual separation from the federation
the need for a clear separation between Church and State
They were reunited after a separation of more than 20 years.
a legal separation
Basque separatists
a separatist movement
sepia ink/prints/photographs
The court subpoenaed her to appear as a witness.
a septic finger
A dirty cut may go septic.
He spoke in sepulchral tones.
a sequel to the hit movie 'Madagascar'
There was an interesting sequel to these events later in the year.
He described the sequence of events leading up to the robbery.
The tasks had to be performed in a particular sequence.
Number the pages in sequence.
These pages are out of sequence.
The human genome has now been sequenced.
a gene sequencing project
sequential data processing
data stored sequentially on a computer
a seraphic child/nature
a seraphic smile
serendipitous discoveries
a lake, still and serene in the sunlight
serenely beautiful
She smiled serenely.
The hotel offers a haven of peace and serenity away from the bustle of the city.
the abolition of serfdom in Russia in 1861
a blue serge suit
tasks carried out in the same serial order
a serial rapist
a novel in serial form
The novel was serialized on TV in six parts.
a newspaper serialization of the book
a serif typeface
a serious illness/problem/offence
to cause serious injury/damage
They pose a serious threat to security.
The consequences could be serious.
a serious article
a serious newspaper
It's time to give serious consideration to this matter.
We need to get down to the serious business of working out costs.
The team is a serious contender for the title this year.
I'm afraid I'm not a very serious person.
Believe me, I'm deadly (= extremely) serious.
Don't laugh, it's a serious suggestion.
Is she serious about wanting to sell the house?
He's really serious about Penny and wants to get engaged.
(informal) You can't be serious! (= you must be joking)
You think I did it? Be serious! (= what you suggest is ridiculous)
You can earn serious money doing that.
I'm ready to do some serious eating (= I am very hungry).
to be seriously ill/injured
You're not seriously expecting me to believe that?
They are seriously concerned about security.
Smoking can seriously damage your health.
Seriously though, it could be really dangerous.
They're seriously rich.
We take threats of this kind very seriously.
Why can't you ever take anything seriously?
He spoke with a seriousness that was unusual in him.
the ambulance/bus/telephone, etc. service
The government aims to improve public services, especially education.
Essential services (= the supply of water, gas, electricity) will be maintained.
the prison service
the BBC World Service
financial services
the development of new goods and services
Smith's Catering Services (= a company) offers the best value.
We guarantee (an) excellent service.
the service sector (= the part of the economy involved in this type of business)
a service industry
The food was good but the service was very slow.
10% will be added to your bill for service.
Our main concern is to provide quality customer service.
She has just celebrated 25 years' service with the company.
The employees have good conditions of service.
After retiring, she became involved in voluntary service in the local community.
That computer gave us very good service.
The ship will be taken out of service within two years.
a service engineer
(BrE) I had taken the car in for a service.
(NAmE) I had taken the car in for service.
You need the services of a good lawyer.
He offered his services as a driver.
Most of the boys went straight into the services.
He saw service in North Africa.
a service family
morning/evening service
to hold/attend a service
a funeral/marriage/memorial, etc. service
the cancellation of the 10.15 service to Glasgow
motorway services
It's five miles to the next services.
It's your service (= your turn to start playing).
Her service has improved.
a tea service (= cups, saucers, a teapot and plates, for serving tea)
to be in/go into service (= to be/become a servant)
the service of a demand for payment
We need to have the car serviced.
Botley is well serviced by a regular bus route into Oxford.
This department services the international sales force (= provides services for it).
The company can no longer service its debts.
the serpentine course of the river
a knife with a serrated edge
serried ranks of soldiers
snakebite serum
a domestic servant
They treat their mother like a servant.
a public servant
He was willing to make himself a servant of his art.
Breakfast is served between 7 and 10 a.m.
Pour the sauce over the pasta and serve immediately.
Shall I serve?
Serve the lamb with new potatoes and green beans.
They served a wonderful meal to more than fifty delegates.
The delegates were served with a wonderful meal.
She served us a delicious lunch.
The quiche can be served hot or cold.
This dish will serve four hungry people.
Are you being served?
She was serving behind the counter.
These experiments serve no useful purpose.
Most of their economic policies serve the interests of big business.
How can we best serve the needs of future generations?
His linguistic ability served him well in his chosen profession.
The centre will serve the whole community.
The town is well served with buses and major road links.
The sofa will serve as a bed for a night or two.
The judge said the punishment would serve as a warning to others.
The attack was unsuccessful and served only to alert the enemy.
He served as a captain in the army.
She served in the medical corps.
He served under Tony Blair in the 1990s.
I wanted to work somewhere where I could serve the community.
He served the family faithfully for many years (= as a servant).
He served a one-year apprenticeship.
She was elected to serve as secretary of the local party.
prisoners serving life sentences
She is serving two years for theft.
He has served time (= been to prison) before.
to serve a writ/summons on sb
to serve sb with a writ/summons
Who's serving?
She served an ace.
He has three more years in prison before he's served out his sentence.
(BrE) They didn't want me to serve out my notice.
I went around the guests serving out drinks.
He served up a delicious meal.
She served up the usual excuse.
The teams served up some fantastic entertainment.
salad servers
That will be $50, plus a service charge of $2.50.
an Internet service provider
a motorway service station
The carpet is worn but still serviceable.
Like any other type of equipment it requires regular servicing.
debt servicing
This recipe will be enough for four servings.
sesame seeds
a photo/recording/training, etc. session
The course is made up of 12 two-hour sessions.
a session of the UN General Assembly
The court is now in session.
The committee met in closed session (= with nobody else present).
She set a tray down on the table.
They ate everything that was set in front of them.
The house is set (= located) in fifty acres of parkland.
Her manner immediately set everyone at their ease.
He pulled the lever and set the machine in motion.
The hijackers set the hostages free.
Her remarks set me thinking.
The novel is set in London in the 1960s.
She set the camera on automatic.
I set my watch by (= make it show the same time as) the TV.
Set the alarm for 7 o'clock.
Could you set the table for dinner?
The table was set for six guests.
She had the sapphire set in a gold ring.
Her bracelet was set with emeralds.
They haven't set a date for their wedding yet.
The government has set strict limits on public spending this year.
This could set a new fashion.
They set high standards of customer service.
I am unwilling to set a precedent.
She set a new world record for the high jump.
I rely on you to set a good example.
Who will be setting (= writing the questions for) the French exam?
What books have been set (= are to be studied) for the English course?
She's set a difficult task for herself.
She's set herself a difficult task.
I've set myself to finish the job by the end of the month.
Leave the concrete to set for a few hours.
The glue had set hard.
Her jaw was set in a determined manner.
She had her hair washed and set.
The surgeon set her broken arm.
Schubert set many poems to music.
We sat and watched the sun setting.
She set about the business of cleaning the house.
We need to set about finding a solution.
She accused her husband of setting the children against her.
Set against the benefits of the new technology, there is also a strong possibility that jobs will be lost.
to set capital costs off against tax
Her elegant style sets her apart from other journalists.
Two rooms were set apart for use as libraries.
She tries to set aside some money every month.
Let's set aside my personal feelings for now.
The verdict was set aside by the Appeal Court.
The bad weather set back the building programme by several weeks.
The repairs could set you back over £200.
The house is set well back from the road.
Passengers may be set down and picked up only at the official stops.
The standards were set down by the governing body.
The President set forth his views in a television broadcast.
The rain seemed to have set in for the day.
a plaque set into the wall
We set off for London just after ten.
A gang of boys were setting off fireworks in the street.
Opening this door will set off the alarm.
Panic on the stock market set off a wave of selling.
That blouse sets off the blue of her eyes.
I opened the gate, and was immediately set on by a large dog.
The farmer threatened to set his dogs on us.
They set out on the last stage of their journey.
She set out to break the world record.
They succeeded in what they set out to do.
Her work is always very well set out.
He set out his objections to the plan.
She set out the reasons for her resignation in a long letter.
A bank loan helped to set him up in business.
The break from work really set me up for the new year.
He denied the charges, saying the police had set him up.
The police set up roadblocks on routes out of the city.
She set up her stereo in her bedroom.
I've set up a meeting for Friday.
to set up a business
A fund will be set up for the dead men's families.
The slump on Wall Street set up a chain reaction in stock markets around the world.
She took out a bank loan and set up on her own.
After leaving college, he set himself up as a freelance photographer.
a set of six chairs
a complete set of her novels
a set of false teeth
a new set of rules to learn
You can borrow my keys—I have a spare set.
a chess set
the smart set (= rich, fashionable people)
Dublin's literary set
We need volunteers to help build and paint the set.
The cast must all be on (the) set by 7 in the morning.
She won in straight sets (= without losing a set).
set theory
She's in the top set for French.
She admired the firm set of his jaw.
A shampoo and set costs £15.
onion sets
a house set in 40 acres of parkland
He had close-set eyes.
Each person was given set jobs to do.
The school funds a set number of free places.
Mornings in our house always follow a set pattern.
set ideas/opinions/views on how to teach
As people get older, they get set in their ways.
a set dinner/lunch/meal
Shall we have the set menu?
The team looks set for victory.
Interest rates look set to rise again.
Be set to leave by 10 o'clock.
a set smile
His face took on a set expression.
Don't worry about the grammar, just learn this as a set phrase.
That telephone call set in train a whole series of events.
She's set her sights on getting into Harvard.
I've only been here a couple of weeks and I don't really know the set-up.
He didn't steal the goods. It was a set-up.
She sets great store by her appearance.
It is unwise to put too much store by these statistics.
The team suffered a major setback when their best player was injured.
The breakdown in talks represents a temporary setback in the peace process.
white settlers in Africa
a quiz setter
a rural/an ideal/a beautiful/an idyllic, etc. setting
It was the perfect setting for a wonderful Christmas.
short stories with a contemporary setting
The performance of the engine was tested at different settings.
To change the size of the font, go to Settings.
Schubert's setting of a poem by Goethe
a place setting
to settle a dispute/an argument/a matter
It's time you settled your differences with your father.
There is pressure on the unions to settle.
The company has agreed to settle out of court (= come to an agreement without going to court).
It's all settled —we're leaving on the nine o'clock plane.
Bob will be there? That settles it. I'm not coming.
He had to settle his affairs (= arrange all his personal business) in Paris before he could return home.
It's been settled that we leave on the nine o'clock plane.
She settled in Vienna after her father's death.
This region was settled by the Dutch in the nineteenth century.
Ellie settled back in her seat.
He settled himself comfortably in his usual chair.
I settled her on the sofa and put a blanket over her.
She settled the blanket around her knees.
The baby wouldn't settle.
I took a pill to help settle my nerves.
This should settle your stomach.
Dust had settled on everything.
Two birds settled on the fence.
I don't think the snow will settle (= remain on the ground without melting).
His gaze settled on her face.
The contents of the package may have settled in transit.
Please settle your bill before leaving the hotel.
The insurance company is refusing to settle her claim.
Let me settle with you for the meal.
I'll pay now—we can settle up later.
I settled down with a book.
When are you going to get married and settle down?
It always takes the class a while to settle down at the start of the lesson.
They finally settled down to a discussion of the main issues.
He found it hard to settle to his work.
In the end they had to settle for a draw.
I couldn't afford the house I really wanted, so I had to settle for second best.
How are the kids settling into their new school?
Have you settled on a name for the baby yet?
settled weather
a settled way of life
to negotiate a peace settlement
The management and unions have reached a settlement over new working conditions.
an out-of-court settlement (= money that is paid to sb or an agreement that is made to stop sb going to court)
the settlement of a dispute
a divorce/marriage/property, etc. settlement
the settlement of a debt
a cheque in settlement of a bill
signs of an Iron Age settlement
the settlement of the American West
to sever a rope
a severed artery
His hand was severed from his arm.
The two countries have severed all diplomatic links.
Several letters arrived this morning.
He's written several books about India.
Several more people than usual came to the meeting.
If you're looking for a photo of Alice you'll find several in here.
Several of the paintings were destroyed in the fire.
They said goodbye and went their several ways.
Tenants are jointly and severally liable for payment of the rent.
the severance of diplomatic relations
employees given notice of severance
severance pay/terms
a severe handicap
His injuries are severe.
severe weather conditions
a severe winter (= one during which the weather conditions are extremely bad)
The party suffered severe losses during the last election.
a severe shortage of qualified staff
The courts are becoming more severe on young offenders.
a severe punishment/sentence
a severe expression
She was a severe woman who seldom smiled.
The marathon is a severe test of stamina.
Modern furniture is a little too severe for my taste.
Her hair was short and severe.
severely disabled
areas severely affected by unemployment
Anyone breaking the law will be severely punished.
a severely critical report
Her hair was tied severely in a bun.
A prison sentence should match the severity of the crime.
The chances of a full recovery will depend on the severity of her injuries.
the severity of the problem
He frowned with mock severity.
The elaborate facade contrasts strongly with the severity of the interior.
My mother taught me how to sew.
to sew by hand/machine
to sew a seam
She sews all her own clothes.
Can you sew a button on for me?
Surgeons were able to sew the finger back on.
to sew up a seam
It didn't take me long to sew up the deal.
They think they have the election sewn up (= they think they are definitely going to win).
a ban on the dumping of raw sewage (= that has not been treated with chemicals) at sea
sewage disposal
knitting and sewing
a pile of sewing
How can you tell what sex a fish is?
a process that allows couples to choose the sex of their baby
Please indicate your sex and date of birth below.
sex discrimination (= the act of treating men and women differently in an unfair way)
a member of the opposite sex
single-sex schools
It is illegal to have sex with a person under the age of 16.
gay sex
the sex act
a sex attack
a sex shop (= one selling magazines, objects, etc. that are connected with sex)
sex education in schools
These drugs may affect your sex drive (= your interest in sex and the ability to have it).
a highly-sexed woman
The profession is trying to sex up its image.
He exudes sex appeal.
ways to improve your sex life
the sexy lead singer
She looked incredibly sexy in a black evening gown.
sexy underwear
a sexy look
The music and wine began to make him feel sexy.
a sexy new range of software
Accountancy just isn't sexy.
legislation designed to combat sexism in the workplace
a study of sexism in language
a sexist attitude
sexist language
a sexless figure
sexual behaviour
They were not having a sexual relationship at the time.
Her interest in him is purely sexual.
sexual orientation (= whether you are heterosexual or homosexual )
the sexual organs (= the penis, vagina, etc.)
sexual reproduction
sexual characteristics
sexually abused children
She finds him sexually attractive.
sexually explicit
Girls become sexually mature earlier than boys.
male/female sexuality
He was confused about his sexuality.
Sgt Williams
Sh! Keep your voice down!
She wore shabby old jeans and a T-shirt.
The old man was shabby and unkempt.
She tried to make up for her shabby treatment of him.
shabbily dressed
I think you were very shabbily treated.
The rooms in the hotel are all shabby chic with beautiful old furniture and decor.
The hostage had been shackled to a radiator.
The prisoners were kept shackled during the trial.
a country struggling to free itself from the shackles of colonialism
The children were having fun, chasing each other's shadows.
The ship's sail cast a shadow on the water.
The shadows lengthened as the sun went down.
(figurative) He didn't want to cast a shadow on (= spoil) their happiness.
Let's sit in the shade for a while.
As the sun went down we cast long shadows on the lawn.
Her face was in deep shadow.
His face was deep in shadow, turned away from her.
I thought I saw a figure standing in the shadows.
A shadow of a smile touched his mouth.
She knew beyond a shadow of a doubt (= with no doubt at all) that he was lying.
The new leader wants to escape from the shadow of his predecessor.
These people have been living for years under the shadow of fear.
You can't spend all your life chasing shadows.
He was shadowed for a week by the secret police.
It is often helpful for teachers to shadow managers in industry.
A wide-brimmed hat shadowed her face.
The bay was shadowed by magnificent cliffs.
the shadow Chancellor
the shadow Cabinet
We sat down in the shade of the wall.
The temperature can reach 40°C in the shade.
The trees provide shade for the animals in the summer.
I bought a new shade for the lamp.
an eyeshade
a delicate/pale/rich/soft shade of blue
The painting needs more light and shade.
politicians of all shades of opinion
The word has many shades of meaning.
He was feeling a shade disappointed.
short skirts and long boots—shades of the 1960s
The courtyard was shaded by high trees.
She shaded her eyes against the sun.
a shaded lamp
What do the shaded areas on the map represent?
I'm going to shade this part in.
The scarlet of the wings shades into pink at the tips.
Distrust of foreigners can shade into racism.
a shady garden
We went to find somewhere cool and shady to have a drink.
a shady businessman/deal
Someone was waiting in the shadowy doorway.
Shadowy figures approached them out of the fog.
the shadowy world of terrorism
a lift/elevator shaft
a mineshaft
a ventilation shaft
A shaft of moonlight fell on the lake.
(figurative) a shaft of inspiration
Shafts of fear ran through her as she heard footsteps behind her.
a shaft of wit
a shaggy mane of hair
a huge shaggy white dog
The whole house shakes when a train goes past.
Shake the bottle well before use.
He shook her violently by the shoulders.
She shook her hair loose.
She bent down to shake a pebble out of her shoe.
She shook her head in disbelief.
Do people in Italy shake hands when they meet?
They shook hands on the deal (= to show that they had reached an agreement).
He shook my hand warmly.
Our host shook each of us warmly by the hand.
He was shaking with fear.
I was shaking like a leaf.
Her hands had started to shake.
He was badly shaken by the news of her death.
The accident really shook her up.
The incident had shaken her faith in him.
This announcement is bound to shake the confidence of the industry.
I can't seem to shake off this cold.
He couldn't shake the feeling that there was something wrong.
They shook on the deal.
Let's shake on it.
to shake out a duster
Give the bottle a good shake before opening.
He dismissed the idea with a firm shake of his head (= turning it from side to side to mean 'no').
She gave him a shake to wake him.
I always get the shakes before exams.
a strawberry shake
a management shake-up
a police shakedown of the area
a salt shaker
a cocktail shaker
Her voice sounded shaky on the phone.
The old man was very shaky on his feet.
That ladder looks a little shaky.
(figurative) Her memories of the accident are a little shaky.
(figurative) The protesters are on shaky ground (= it is not certain that their claims are valid).
Business is looking shaky at the moment.
After a shaky start, they fought back to win 3–2.
'Get the doctor,' he whispered shakily.
the extraction of shale gas by fracking
This time next week I shall be in Scotland.
We shan't be gone long.
I said that I should be pleased to help.
Shall I send you the book?
What shall we do this weekend?
Let's look at it again, shall we?
I'll(= I will) be late.
'You'll(= you will) apologize immediately.' 'No I won't!'
What shall I wear to the party?
Shall we order some coffee?
I'll drive, shall I?
He is determined that you shall succeed.
Candidates shall remain in their seats until all the papers have been collected.
a shallow dish
They were playing in the shallow end (= of the swimming pool).
These fish are found in shallow waters around the coast.
He was breathing shallowly.
The latest crime figures are a complete sham.
Their promises turned out to be full of sham and hypocrisy.
a sham marriage
Is he really sick or is he just shamming?
The press conference was a complete shambles.
What a shambles!
The government is in a shambles over Europe.
The house was a shambles.
His face burned with shame.
She hung her head in shame.
He could not live with the shame of other people knowing the truth.
To my shame (= I feel shame that) I refused to listen to her side of the story.
Have you no shame?
What a shame they couldn't come.
It's a shame about Tim, isn't it?
It's a shame that she wasn't here to see it.
It would be a crying shame (= a great shame) not to take them up on the offer.
There is no shame in wanting to be successful.
(formal) She felt that her failure would bring shame on her family.
His generosity shamed them all.
You have shamed your family.
She shamed her father into promising more help.
Shame, she's so cute!
a shamefaced smile
shameful behaviour
It was shameful the way she was treated.
The whole film is shamelessly romantic and glamorous.
a shaming defeat by a less experienced team
a shampoo for greasy hair
carpet shampoo
Rinse the hair thoroughly after each shampoo.
a shampoo and set (= an act of washing and styling sb's hair)
Two shandies, please.
braised lamb shanks
a rectangular shape
The pool was in the shape of a heart.
The island was originally circular in shape.
Squares, circles and triangles are types of shape.
Candles come in all shapes and sizes.
You can recognize the fish by the shape of their fins.
This old T-shirt has completely lost its shape.
(figurative) The government provides money in the shape of (= consisting of) grants and student loans.
Ghostly shapes moved around in the dark.
What sort of shape was the car in after the accident?
He's in good shape for a man of his age.
I like to keep in shape (= keep fit).
Will new technology change the shape of broadcasting?
She spent the whole evening throwing shapes on the dance floor.
(figurative) The two main investors threw some shapes during the debate.
I was worried he might get violent but he was just throwing shapes.
Shape the dough into a ball.
This tool is used for shaping wood.
His ideas had been shaped by his experiences during the war.
She had a leading role in shaping party policy.
She was shaping to hit her second shot.
He finally faced up to his drug problem when his band told him to shape up or ship out.
Our plans are shaping up nicely (= showing signs that they will be successful).
If he doesn't shape up, he'll soon be out of a job.
In the film he plays a shape-shifter, who takes the form of people's worst fears.
a huge balloon shaped like a giant cow
almond-shaped eyes
an L-shaped room
a shapeless sweater
a shapeless and incoherent story
shards of glass
Sue shares a house with three other students.
There isn't an empty table. Would you mind sharing?
We shared the pizza between the four of us.
Eli shared his chocolate with the other kids.
The conference is a good place to share information and exchange ideas.
John had no brothers or sisters and wasn't used to sharing.
They shared a common interest in botany.
a view that is widely shared
shared values
People often share their political views with their parents.
I didn't really share in her love of animals.
Men often don't like to share their problems.
The two friends shared everything—they had no secrets.
Please share this on Facebook and Twitter so we can get the word out.
Would you like to share your experience with the rest of the group?
The group listens while one person shares (= tells other people about their experiences, feelings, etc.).
I try to get the kids to share in the housework.
Both drivers shared the blame for the accident.
How much was your share of the winnings?
Next year we hope to have a bigger share of the market.
(BrE) I'm looking for a flat share (= a flat that is shared by two or more people who are not related).
We all did our share.
Everyone must accept their share of the blame.
I've had my share of luck in the past.
I've done my share of worrying for one day!
shares in British Telecom
a fall in share prices
sharp teeth
a sharp drop in prices
a sharp rise in crime
a sharp increase in unemployment
He heard a sharp intake of breath.
We need to give young criminals a short, sharp shock (= a punishment that is very unpleasant for a short time).
a sharp outline
The photograph is not very sharp (= there are no clear contrasts between areas of light and shade).
She drew a sharp distinction between domestic and international politics.
In sharp contrast to her mood, the clouds were breaking up to reveal a blue sky.
The issue must be brought into sharper focus.
to have sharp eyes
a girl of sharp intelligence
a sharp sense of humour
He kept a sharp lookout for any strangers.
It was very sharp of you to see that!
sharp criticism
Emma has a sharp tongue (= she often speaks in an unpleasant or unkind way).
He was very sharp with me when I was late.
She read out the list in sharp, clipped tones.
There was a sharp knock on the door.
He winced as a sharp pain shot through his leg.
Polly felt a sharp pang of jealousy.
a sharp bend in the road
a sharp turn to the left
His lawyer's a sharp operator.
The firm had to face some sharp practice from competing companies.
The consultants were a group of men in sharp suits.
Todd is a sharp dresser.
a man with a thin face and sharp features (= a pointed nose and chin)
the Piano Sonata in C sharp minor
That note sounded sharp.
There was a sudden sharpness in her voice.
Please be here at seven o'clock sharp.
It's a difficult piece to play, full of sharps and flats.
the safe disposal of sharps
A sharp-eyed reader spotted the mistake in yesterday's paper.
This knife needs sharpening.
The outline of the trees sharpened as it grew lighter.
The sea air sharpened our appetites.
There is a need to sharpen the focus of the discussion.
He needs to sharpen up before the Olympic trials.
She's doing a course to sharpen her business skills.
a pencil sharpener
a knife sharpener
The report was sharply critical of the police.
'Is there a problem?' he asked sharply.
Profits fell sharply following the takeover.
The road fell sharply to the sea.
Their experiences contrast sharply with those of other children.
She moved sharply across the room to block his exit.
He rapped sharply on the window.
sharply pointed
He dropped the vase and it shattered into pieces on the floor.
the sound of shattering glass
The explosion shattered all the windows in the building.
Anna's self-confidence had been completely shattered.
Her experience of divorce shattered her illusions about love.
My whole world shattered into a million pieces.
The unexpected death of their son shattered them.
shatter-proof glass
The experience left her feeling absolutely shattered.
a shattering experience
The news of his death came as a shattering blow.
Mike cut himself shaving.
The nurse washed and shaved him.
a shaved head
The firm had shaved profit margins.
Charles decided to shave off his beard.
I had to shave a few millimetres off the door to make it shut.
He shaved a tenth of a second off the world record.
I need a shave.
to have a shave
a shaven head
'What does your sister do?' 'She's a dentist.'
Doesn't she (= the woman we are looking at) look like Sue?
What a sweet little dog. Is it a he or a she?
a she-wolf
It was time for the sheep to be shorn.
sheep shearing
shorn hair
The bolts holding the wheel in place sheared off.
a pair of garden shears
the sheath around an electric cable
a bicycle shed
(BrE) a garden shed
an engine shed
The factory is shedding a large number of jobs.
a quick way to shed unwanted pounds (= extra weight or fat on your body)
Museums have been trying hard to shed their stuffy image.
Luke shed his clothes onto the floor.
A duck's feathers shed water immediately.
The traffic jam was caused by a lorry shedding its load.
The candles shed a soft glow on her face.
She shed no tears when she heard he was dead.
The project cost a shedload of money.
This should save you shedloads.
hair with a healthy sheen
a flock of sheep
Sheep were grazing in the fields.
Mary gave her a sheepish grin.
a sheepskin coat/rug
The area is under threat from the sheer number of tourists using it.
We were impressed by the sheer size of the cathedral.
The concert was sheer delight.
I only agreed out of sheer desperation.
sheer cliffs/slopes
Outside there was a sheer drop down to the sea below.
sheer nylon
The cliffs rise sheer from the beach.
The ground dropped sheer away at our feet.
(figurative) Her mind sheered away from images she did not wish to dwell on.
Have you changed the sheets (= put clean sheets on the bed)?
He slid between the sheets and closed his eyes.
a clean/blank sheet of paper (= with no writing on it)
Pick up one of our free information sheets at reception.
a sheet of glass/steel
sheet metal (= metal that has been made into thin sheets)
Place the dough on a baking sheet (= for cooking sth in an oven).
The road was covered with a sheet of ice.
a sheet of flame
The rain was coming down in sheets (= very heavily).
metal/plastic/polythene sheeting
The gunman used the hostages as a human shield.
Water is not an effective shield against the sun's more harmful rays.
She hid her true feelings behind a shield of cold indifference.
I shielded my eyes against the glare.
The ozone layer shields the earth from the sun's ultraviolet rays.
You can't shield her from the truth forever.
Police believe that somebody is shielding the killer.
I helped him put up some shelves in his bedroom.
The book I wanted was on the top shelf.
supermarket/library shelves
empty shelves
the continental shelf
We collected shells on the beach.
snail shells
walnut shells
earrings made out of coconut shell
pasta shells
The house was now a shell gutted by flames.
(figurative) My life has been an empty shell since he died.
the body shell of a car
She had developed a shell of indifference.
They shelled the city all night.
Just as they were leaving, the rebels started shelling.
The band shelled out $100 000 for a mobile recording studio.
The Republicans got shellacked in the elections.
We suffered weeks of heavy shelling.
Human beings need food, clothing and shelter.
to take shelter from the storm
The fox was running for the shelter of the trees.
People were desperately seeking shelter from the gunfire.
They built a rough shelter from old pieces of wood.
an air-raid shelter
a night shelter for the homeless
an animal shelter
Trees shelter the house from the wind.
helping the poor and sheltering the homeless
Perhaps I sheltered my daughter too much (= protected her too much from unpleasant or difficult experiences).
We sheltered from the rain in a doorway.
a sheltered beach
She had a very sheltered childhood.
They both lead very sheltered lives.
sheltered accommodation/housing
a sheltered workshop for the blind
The government has shelved the idea until at least next year.
The beach shelved gently down to the water.
wooden shelving
Oh, well done, Sherlock. Did you figure that out all by yourself?
sweet/dry sherry
cream sherry (= a type of very sweet sherry )
fine quality sherries
a sherry glass (= a type of small narrow wine glass)
I'll have a sherry.
a quiet, shy man
Don't be shy—come and say hello.
She was too shy to ask anyone for help.
As a teenager I was painfully shy.
She's very shy with adults.
a shy smile
The panda is a shy creature.
The band has never been shy of publicity.
He disliked her and had never been shy of saying so.
He died before Christmas, only a month shy of his 90th birthday.
We are still two players shy (of a full team).
camera-shy (= not liking to be photographed)
He's always been work-shy.
My horse shied at the unfamiliar noise.
Hugh never shied away from his responsibilities.
The newspapers have shied away from investigating the story.
Lydia shifted uncomfortably in her chair.
The action of the novel shifts from Paris to London.
Could you help me shift some furniture?
He shifted his gaze from the child to her.
She shifted her weight from one foot to the other.
Public attitudes towards marriage have shifted over the past 50 years.
The balance of power shifted away from workers towards employers.
We need to shift the focus of this debate.
The new policy shifted the emphasis away from fighting inflation.
He tried to shift the blame for his mistakes onto his colleagues.
a detergent that shifts even the most stubborn stains
They cut prices drastically to try and shift stock.
to shift into second gear
You're going to have to shift for yourself from now on.
a dramatic shift in public opinion
a shift of emphasis
to be on the day/night shift at the factory
to work an eight-hour shift
working in shifts
shift workers/work
The night shift has/have just come off duty.
shifty eyes
to look shifty
Stop shilly-shallying and make up your mind.
The sea was shimmering in the sunlight.
a shimmer of moonlight in the dark sky
He shinned down the drainpipe and ran off.
The sun shone brightly in a cloudless sky.
The dark polished wood shone like glass.
(figurative) Her eyes were shining with excitement.
Excitement was shining in her eyes.
He shone the flashlight around the cellar.
(figurative) Campaigners are shining a spotlight on the world's diminishing natural resources.
He shined shoes and sold newspapers to make money.
He failed to shine academically but he was very good at sports.
She has set a shining example of loyal service over four decades.
Her old professional skills shone through.
a shampoo that gives your hair body and shine
a shingle beach
He hung out his own shingle (= started a business as a doctor or lawyer).
shiny black hair
shiny new stuff/software
There are two restaurants on board ship.
a sailing/cargo/cruise ship
a ship's captain/crew/company/cook
Raw materials and labour come by ship, rail or road.
The company ships its goods all over the world.
He was arrested and shipped back to the UK for trial.
The software is due to ship next month.
The company continues to ship more computer systems than its rivals.
The children were shipped off to a boarding school at an early age.
a ship-to-shore radio
shipboard romances
the shipbuilding industry
The canal is open to shipping.
international shipping lanes (= routes for ships)
a shipping company
She arranged for the shipping of her furniture to England.
The goods are ready for shipment.
the illegal shipment of arms
shipment costs
arms shipments
a shipment of arms
They narrowly escaped shipwreck in a storm in the North Sea.
The contents of shipwrecks belong to the state.
a shipwrecked sailor
shipyard workers
Discipline in the company was strict and no one shirked.
A determined burglar will not shirk from breaking a window to gain entry.
She never shirked her responsibilities.
to wear a shirt and tie
a short-sleeved shirt
a football shirt
Shit! I've lost my keys!
a pile of dog shit on the path
to have/take a shit
You're talking shit!
She's so full of shit.
He's an arrogant little shit.
I'm not going to take any shit from them.
You're shit and you know you are!
They're a shit team.
a shit-hot lawyer
What a shitty way to treat a friend!
Don't stand outside shivering—come inside and get warm!
He shivered at the thought of the cold, dark sea.
to shiver with cold/excitement/pleasure, etc.
The sound of his voice sent shivers down her spine.
He felt a cold shiver of fear run through him.
I don't like him. He gives me the shivers.
Symptoms include headaches, vomiting and the shivers.
The news of my promotion came as a shock.
He's still in a state of shock.
I got a terrible shock the other day.
She still hadn't got over the shock of seeing him again.
(informal) If you think the job will be easy, you're in for a shock.
Losing in the first round was a shock to the system (= it was more of a shock because it was not expected).
The team suffered a shock defeat in the first round.
She was taken to hospital suffering from shock.
He isn't seriously injured but he is in (a state of) shock.
The shock of the explosion could be felt up to six miles away.
The bumper absorbs shock on impact.
Don't touch that wire or you'll get a shock.
It shocks you when something like that happens.
We were all shocked at the news of his death.
Neighbours were shocked that such an attack could happen in their area.
I was shocked to hear that he had resigned.
The level of violence in the movie really disgusted me.
The public is becoming sickened by these images of violence and death.
I was repelled by the smell of drink on his breath.
These movies deliberately set out to shock.
She enjoys shocking people by saying outrageous things.
For a few minutes we stood in shocked silence.
The murder sent shock waves through the whole community.
a shock-horror advertising campaign
shocking behaviour
shocking news
It is shocking that they involved children in the crime.
a shocking waste of money
The house was left in a shocking state.
a shockingly high mortality rate
My watch is shockproof and waterproof.
She turned on her elegantly shod heel.
shoddy goods
shoddy workmanship
shoddy treatment
a pair of shoes
He took his shoes and socks off.
What's your shoe size?
a shoe brush
shoe polish
The horses were sent to the blacksmith to be shod.
They managed to shoehorn the material onto just one CD.
a pair of shoelaces
to tie/untie your shoelaces
Your shoelace is undone.
a shoeshine stand on West 32nd Street
The club exists on a shoestring budget.
The comic is one of Japan's top-selling shonen.
He shooed the dog out of the kitchen.
Don't shoot—I surrender.
troops shooting at the enemy
The police rarely shoot to kill (= try to kill the people they shoot at).
He shot an arrow from his bow.
They shot the lock off (= removed it by shooting).
A man was shot in the leg.
He shot himself during a fit of depression.
The guards were ordered to shoot on sight anyone trying to escape.
Three people were shot dead during the robbery.
This is just a toy gun—it doesn't shoot real bullets.
to shoot pheasants
They go shooting in Scotland.
A plane shot across the sky.
His hand shot out to grab her.
Flames were shooting up through the roof.
(figurative) The band's last single shot straight to number one in the charts.
He shot out his hand to grab her.
a shooting pain in the back
The pain shot up her arm.
Journalists were shooting questions at the candidates.
She shot an angry glance at him.
She shot him an angry glance.
Cameras ready? OK, shoot!
Where was the movie shot?
The movie was shot in black and white.
He should have shot instead of passing.
(especially NAmE) After school we'd be on the driveway shooting baskets (= playing basketball ).
She shot a 75 in the first round.
to shoot pool
The gang decided to shoot it out with the police.
Several planes were shot down by enemy fire.
His latest theory has been shot down in flames.
We've been shooting for a pay raise for months.
I had to shoot off at the end of the meeting.
I was only five when my Dad shot through.
Their kids have shot up since I last saw them.
Ticket prices shot up last year.
new green shoots
bamboo shoots
a fashion shoot
Shoot! I've forgotten my book!
You want to tell me something? OK, shoot!
The man fired several shots from his pistol.
Someone took a shot at the car.
We heard some shots in the distance.
This statement was the opening shot in the argument.
The supermarket fired the first shot in a price war today.
The team are looking good for a shot at the title.
I've never produced a play before but I'll have a shot at it.
I'm willing to give it a shot.
Just give it your best shot (= try as hard as you can) and you'll be fine.
Taylor scored with a low shot into the corner of the net.
Good shot!
I got some good shots of people at the party.
the opening shot of a character walking across a desert
a flu shot (= to protect you against flu)
a shot of morphine
a shot of whisky
The space shot was shown live on television.
The horse is a 10–1 shot.
shot silk
The brakes on this car are shot.
I'm shot—I'm too old for this job.
After the accident his nerves were shot to pieces.
a voice shot through with emotion
a 3-D shooter game
This is a shooter with an emphasis on fast and furious action.
Terrorist groups claimed responsibility for the shootings and bomb attacks.
a serious shooting incident
grouse shooting
Shooting began early this year.
a shoe shop
There's a little gift shop around the corner.
(BrE) a butcher's shop
(NAmE) a butcher shop
(BrE) I'm just going down to the shops. Can I get you anything?
a repair shop
a paint shop (= where cars are painted)
I do a weekly shop at the supermarket.
to shop for food
He likes to shop at the local market.
She was determined to go out and shop till she dropped.
There should be plenty of time to go shopping before we leave New York.
'Where's Mum?' 'She went shopping.'
He didn't expect his own mother to shop him to the police.
Shop around for the best deal.
to work on the shop floor
shop-bought cakes
a sale of shop-soiled goods at half price
Shoplifters will be prosecuted.
The streets were full of Christmas shoppers.
to go shopping
(BrE) When shall I do the shopping?
(BrE) We do our shopping on Saturdays.
a shopping trolley
(NAmE) a shopping cart
to put the shopping in the car
(figurative) The union presented a shopping list of demands to the management.
(figurative) a shopworn argument (= that is no longer new or useful)
a rocky/sandy shore
to swim from the boat to the shore
a house on the shores of the lake
The ship was anchored off shore.
foreign shores
What brings you to these shores?
a rocky shoreline
The road follows the shoreline for a few miles.
He had short curly hair.
a short walk
a short skirt
She was short and dumpy.
I'm going to France for a short break.
Which is the shortest day of the year?
a short book (= taking a short time to read, because it does not have many pages)
She has a very short memory (= remembers only things that have happened recently).
(informal) Life's too short to sit around moping.
It was all over in a relatively short space of time.
Just two short years ago he was the best player in the country.
I'm afraid I'm a little short (= of money) this month.
She is not short of excuses when things go wrong.
He was a big strapping guy but short on brains.
Money was short at that time.
Her last throw was only three centimetres short of the world record.
The team was five players short.
She was just short of her 90th birthday when she died.
Call me Jo—it's short for Joanna.
file transfer protocol or FTP for short
I'm sorry I was short with you earlier—I had other things on my mind.
Compare the short vowel in 'full' and the long vowel in 'fool'.
She suffered from shortness of breath.
We haven't much time so I'll keep it short and sweet.
I'd never let you go short of anything.
Mothers regularly go short of food to ensure their children have enough.
They had run short of (= used most of their supply of) fuel.
All too often you pitch the ball short.
a career tragically cut short by illness
I'm afraid I'm going to have to stop you short there, as time is running out.
Short of a miracle, we're certain to lose.
Short of asking her to leave (= and we don't want to do that) there's not a lot we can do about the situation.
He stopped short when he heard his name.
She stopped short of calling the president a liar.
I think I've been short-changed at the bar.
The wires had short-circuited and burnt out.
short-range missiles
a short-range weather forecast
a short-sighted policy
She suffered from short sight.
Many people accused the government of short-sightedness.
Many people accused the government of short-sightedness.
a short-stay car park
a short-term loan
to find work on a short-term contract
short-term plans
a short-term solution to the problem
His short-term memory (= the ability to remember things that happened a short time ago) is failing.
food/housing/water shortages
a shortage of funds
There is no shortage of (= there are plenty of) things to do in the town.
strawberry shortcake
You can take a shortcut across the field.
There are no shortcuts to economic recovery.
Injury problems could shorten his career.
a shortened version of the game
In November the temperatures drop and the days shorten.
Her name's Katherine, generally shortened to Kay.
typing and shorthand
to take sth down in shorthand
a shorthand typist
to draw up a shortlist
a shortlist for a literary prize
She is on my shortlist of great singers.
Candidates who are shortlisted for interview will be contacted by the end of the week.
She arrived shortly after us.
I saw him shortly before he died.
I'll be ready shortly.
a pair of tennis shorts
He was wearing a T-shirt and shorts.
You shouldn't drink and drive.
He should have been more careful.
A present for me? You shouldn't have!(= used to thank sb politely)
You should stop worrying about it.
Should I call him and apologize?
I should wait a little longer, if I were you.
(ironic) 'She doesn't think she'll get a job.' 'She should worry, with all her qualifications (= she does not need to worry).'
We should arrive before dark.
I should have finished the book by Friday.
The roads should be less crowded today.
It should be snowing now, according to the weather forecast.
The bus should have arrived ten minutes ago.
If I were asked to work on Sundays, I should resign.
If you should change your mind, do let me know.
In case you should need any help, here's my number.
Should anyone call (= if anyone calls), please tell them I'm busy.
He asked me what time he should come. (= His words were: 'What time shall I come?')
(BrE, formal) I said (that) I should be glad to help.
She recommended that I should take some time off.
In order that training should be effective it must be planned systematically.
She recommended that I take some time off.
In order that training be effective…
I'm anxious that we should allow plenty of time.
I find it astonishing that he should be so rude to you.
I should like to call my lawyer.
We should be grateful for your help.
I should imagine it will take about three hours.
'Is this enough food for everyone?' ' I should think so.'
'Will it matter?' ' I shouldn't think so.'
'I know it's expensive but it will last for years.' ' I should hope so too! '
'Nobody will oppose it.' ' I should think not! '
Why should I help him? He's never done anything for me.
How should I know where you've left your bag?
I got on the bus and who should be sitting in front of me but Tony!
You should have seen her face when she found out!
I said I'd (I would) be late.
He'd (he would) have liked to have been an actor.
I'd (I would) really prefer tea.
We should really go and visit them soon.
You should have seen it!
He slung the bag over his shoulder.
She tapped him on the shoulder.
He looked back over his shoulder.
She shrugged her shoulders (= showing that she didn't know or care).
an off-the-shoulder dress
He carried the child on his shoulders.
broad-shouldered
a jacket with padded shoulders
The village lay just around the shoulder of the hill.
No shoulder for next 5 miles.
to shoulder the responsibility/blame for sth
women who shoulder the double burden of childcare and full-time work
He shouldered his way through the crowd and went after her.
She shouldered past a woman with a screaming baby.
He shouldered the man aside.
She shouldered her bag and set off home.
a shoulder-high wall
They carried him shoulder-high through the crowd.
I shouted for help but nobody came.
Then he started shouting and swearing at her.
She shouted at him to shut the gate.
to shout abuse/encouragement/orders
He shouted that he couldn't swim.
She shouted herself hoarse, cheering on the team.
She shouted out in pain when she tried to move her leg.
I'll shout—what are you drinking?
Who's going to shout me a drink?
The speaker was shouted down by a group of protesters.
Don't shout out all the answers.
'I'm over here!' I shouted out.
angry shouts
a shout of anger
I heard her warning shout too late.
What are you drinking? It's my shout.
This is a shout-out to all our sponsors and advertisers.
Didn't you hear all the shouting?
a shouty conversation on the stairs
The crowd was pushing and shoving to get a better view.
The door wouldn't open no matter how hard she shoved.
He shoved her down the stairs.
She shoved the book into her bag and hurried off.
He came over and shoved a piece of paper into my hand.
Shove your suitcase under the bed.
'The boss wants that report now.' 'Yeah? Tell him he can shove it.'
Shove up! Jan wants to sit down.
You have to give the door a shove or it won't close.
workmen with picks and shovels
(NAmE) The children took their pails and shovels to the beach.
A gang of workmen were shovelling rubble onto a truck.
They went out in freezing conditions to shovel snow.
(NAmE) to shovel the sidewalk/driveway (= to remove snow)
(figurative) He sat at the table, shovelling food into his mouth.
The figures clearly show that her claims are false.
Market research has shown us that people want quality, not just low prices.
a report showing the company's current situation
His new book shows him to be a first-rate storyteller.
This shows how people are influenced by TV advertisements.
You have to show your ticket as you go in.
If there's a letter from France please show it to me.
Have you shown your work to anyone?
Have you shown anyone your work?
She showed the technique to her students.
She showed her students the technique.
Can you show me how to do it?
He showed me our location on the map.
Show me which picture you drew.
We were shown into the waiting room.
I'll go first and show you the way.
to show great courage
She had shown herself unable to deal with money.
He has shown himself to be ready to make compromises.
He has shown that he is ready to make compromises.
They showed no respect for their parents.
They showed their parents no respect.
Fear showed in his eyes.
She tried not to let her disappointment show.
She's nearly forty now. And it shows (= it's obvious).
Her expression showed her disappointment.
James began to show signs of impatience.
She tried not to show how disappointed she was.
She had a warm woollen hat and scarf on that left only her eyes and nose showing.
Their new white carpet showed every mark.
The map shows the principal towns and rivers.
The clock showed midnight.
The end-of-year accounts show a loss.
She had objected to a photo showing her in a bikini.
The movie is now showing at all major movie theaters.
The movie is being shown now.
She plans to show her paintings early next year.
They think I can't do it, but I'll show them!
He has shown himself to be a caring father.
I waited an hour but he didn't show.
We were shown around the school by one of the students.
Has anyone shown you round yet?
He's just showing off because that girl he likes is here.
She wanted to show off her new husband at the party.
He likes to show off how well he speaks French.
a dress that shows off her figure
The writing on the other side of the page shows through.
(figurative) When he spoke, his bitterness showed through.
Veins showed through her pale skin.
It was getting late when she finally showed up.
a broken bone showed up on the X-ray
The harsh light showed up the lines on her face.
He showed me up by snoring during the concert.
to go to a show
a one-woman/-man show
to put on/stage a show
She's the star of the show!
to host a show
a TV/radio show
a quiz show
an agricultural show
The latest computers will be on show at the exhibition.
a show of emotion
a show of support
a show of force/strength by the army
He may seem charming, but it's all show!
She pretends to be interested in opera, but it's only for show.
He made a great show of affection, but I knew he didn't mean it.
a lovely show of spring flowers
She runs the whole show.
I won't interfere—it's your show.
The team put on a good show in the competition.
It's a poor show if he forgets your birthday.
As always, the children stole the show.
to be in show business
show-business people/stars
That's showbiz!
a show-stopping performance
The festival was a showcase for young musicians.
Jack found a film role that showcased all his talents.
Management are facing a showdown with union members today.
Fans gathered outside the stadium for the final showdown (= the game that will decide the winner of the competition).
a hotel room with bath and shower
He's in the shower.
a shower cubicle
to have a shower
(especially NAmE) to take a shower
shower gel
scattered showers
April showers
We were caught in a heavy shower.
snow showers
wintry showers (= of snow)
a shower of leaves
a shower of sparks from the fire
a shower of kisses
a bridal/baby shower
She showered and dressed and went downstairs.
Volcanic ash showered down on the town after the eruption.
The bride and groom were showered with rice as they left the church.
The roof collapsed, showering us with dust and debris.
He showered her with gifts.
He showered gifts on her.
a showery day
showy flowers
There are three showings a day.
the strong/poor showing of the Green Party in the election
On (= judging by) last week's showing, the team is unlikely to win today.
a car showroom
It's five minutes to showtime and the theatre is packed.
(figurative, NAmE) Everybody ready? It's showtime!
She shrieked in fright.
The audience was shrieking with laughter.
(figurative) The answer shrieked at her (= was very obvious).
She was shrieking abuse at them as they carried her off.
'Look out!' he shrieked.
She let out a piercing shriek.
a shriek of delight
Serve the fish on a bed of shredded lettuce.
He was accused of shredding documents relating to the case (= putting them in a shredder ).
shreds of paper
His jacket had been torn to shreds by the barbed wire.
There is not a shred of evidence to support his claim.
a shrewd businessman
She is a shrewd judge of character.
a shrewd move
I have a shrewd idea who the mystery caller was.
a shrill voice
shrill demands/protests
Behind him, the telephone shrilled.
'Wait for me!' she shrilled.
Shrimati Sonya Gandhi
grilled shrimp
a shrimping net
shrimpers and fishermen in the Gulf of Mexico
a shrine to the Virgin Mary
to visit the shrine of Mecca
Wimbledon is a shrine for all lovers of tennis.
My sweater shrank in the wash.
The tumour had shrunk to the size of a pea.
The market for their products is shrinking.
There was a movie called 'Honey, I Shrunk the Kids'.
Television in a sense has shrunk the world.
He shrank back against the wall as he heard them approaching.
We made it clear to them that we would not shrink from confrontation.
They did not shrink from doing what was right.
the shrinkage of heavy industry
She bought a slightly larger size to allow for shrinkage.
The leaves on the plant had shrivelled up from lack of water.
The hot weather had shrivelled the grapes in every vineyard.
a shrivelled old man
Joe was shrooming last night and has a killer headache today.
The organization is cloaked in a shroud of secrecy.
a shroud of smoke
The city was shrouded in mist.
His family background is shrouded in mystery.
Sam shrugged and said nothing.
'I don't know,' Anna replied, shrugging her shoulders.
Andy gave a shrug. 'It doesn't matter.'
Shrugging off her injury, she played on.
He shrugged aside suggestions that he resign.
Kevin shrugged off his jacket.
She shrugged him away angrily.
a shrunken old woman
Just thinking about the accident makes me shudder.
Alone in the car, she shuddered with fear.
I shuddered at the thought of all the trouble I'd caused.
I shudder to think how much this is all going to cost (= I don't want to think about it because it is too unpleasant).
The bus shuddered to a halt.
a shudder of fear
She gave an involuntary shudder.
The elevator rose with a shudder.
He shuffled across the room to the window.
The line shuffled forward a little.
Jenny shuffled her feet and blushed with shame.
Shuffle the cards and deal out seven to each player.
I shuffled the documents on my desk.
Give the cards a good shuffle.
She was shunned by her family when she remarried.
an actor who shuns publicity
John was shunted sideways to a job in sales.
Lyn shushed the children.
Philip went into his room and shut the door behind him.
I can't shut my suitcase—it's too full.
She shut her eyes and fell asleep immediately.
He shut his book and looked up.
The window won't shut.
The doors open and shut automatically.
The bank shuts at 4.
The computer system will be shut down over the weekend.
She shut the dog in the shed while she prepared the barbecue.
Sam shut his finger in the car door.
The engines shut off automatically in an emergency.
A valve immediately shuts off the gas when the lid is closed.
Martin shut himself off from the world to write his book.
Bosnia is shut off from the Adriatic by the mountains.
Mum, Ben keeps shutting me out of the bedroom!
sunglasses that shut out 99% of the sun's harmful rays
I wanted to shut John out of my life for ever.
She learned to shut out her angry feelings.
If you shut me out, how can I help you?
Just shut up and listen!
Will you tell Mike to shut up?
When they'd finally shut up, I started again.
She kicked Anne under the table to shut her up.
The door was shut.
She slammed the door shut.
Keep your eyes shut.
Unfortunately the bank is shut now.
factory shutdowns
the nuclear reactor's emergency shutdown procedures
to open/close the shutters
(BrE, figurative) More than 70 000 shopkeepers have been forced to put up the shutters (= close down their businesses) in the past year.
a shuttle service between London and Edinburgh
Her childhood was spent shuttling between her mother and father.
A bus shuttles passengers back and forth from the station to the terminal.
SI units
the sibilant sound of whispering
squabbles between siblings
sibling rivalry (= competition between brothers and sisters)
In the letter to parents it said: 'The school is proud of it's [sic] record of excellence'.
Sic him, Duke!(= said to a dog)
a sick child
Her mother's very sick.
Peter has been off sick (= away from work because he is ill) for two weeks.
Emma has just called in sick (= telephoned to say she will not be coming to work because she is ill).
(BrE) Britain's workers went sick (= did not go to work because they were ill) for a record number of days last year.
(NAmE) I can't afford to get sick (= become ill).
Mum, I feel sick!
If you eat any more cake you'll make yourself sick.
a sick feeling in your stomach
seasick
airsick
carsick
travel-sick
I'm sick of the way you've treated me.
I'm sick and tired of your moaning.
I'm sick to death of all of you!
We're sick of waiting around like this.
a sick joke
That's really sick.
a sick mind
People think I'm sick for having a rat as a pet.
We live in a sick society.
I love that song—it's sick!
Nora turned sick to her stomach on hearing this news.
All the sick and wounded were evacuated.
to be on sick leave
The President left his sickbed to attend the ceremony.
(old-fashioned) The baby sickened and died before his first birthday.
(BrE) Faye hasn't eaten all day—she must be sickening for something.
the sickening stench of burnt flesh
Her head hit the ground with a sickening thud.
'She's off to the Bahamas for a month.' 'How sickening!'
to pull/throw/chuck a sickie
He was a sickly child.
She looked pale and sickly.
sickly plants
a sickly sweet smell
She gave me a sickly smile.
a sickly green colour
She's been off work because of sickness.
insurance against sickness and unemployment
altitude/travel/radiation, etc. sickness
symptoms include sickness and diarrhoea
The sickness passed off after a while.
child molesters and other sickos
She's been off work since Tuesday.
We've lived here since 2006.
I haven't eaten since breakfast.
He's been working in a bank since leaving school.
Since the party she had only spoken to him once.
'They've split up.' ' Since when? '
That was years ago. I've changed jobs since then.
I've been learning English for five years.
Since when did he ever listen to me?
Cath hasn't phoned since she went to Berlin.
It was the first time I'd had visitors since I'd moved to London.
It's twenty years since I've seen her.
How long is it since we last went to the theatre?
She had been worrying ever since the letter arrived.
We thought that, since we were in the area, we'd stop by and see them.
He left home two weeks ago and we haven't heard from him since.
The original building has long since (= long before now) been demolished.
We were divorced two years ago and she has since remarried.
They drive on the left-hand side of the road in Japan.
the right side of the brain
satellite links to the other side of the world
She was on the far side of the room.
They crossed from one side of London to the other.
Keep on your side of the bed!
There is a large window on either side of the front door.
He crossed the bridge to the other side of the river.
people on both sides of the Atlantic
She tilted her head to one side.
Write your name on the side of the box.
There's a scratch on the side of my car.
The kitchen door is at the side of the house.
a side door/entrance/window
Now lay the jar on its side.
A path went up the side of the hill.
Brush the sides of the tin with butter.
She sat on the side of the bed.
A van was parked at the side of the road.
the south side of the lake
She has a pain down her right side.
He was lying on his side.
Keep close to my side.
Her husband stood at her side.
Write on one side of the paper only.
Fry the steaks for two minutes on each side.
He told us not to write more than three sides.
A cube has six sides.
a shape with five sides
The farm buildings form three sides of a square.
a six-sided object
a glass-sided container
We have finally reached an agreement acceptable to all sides.
At some point during the war he seems to have changed sides.
to be on the winning/losing side
We heard both sides of the argument.
I just want you to hear my side of the story first.
Will you keep your side of the bargain?
These poems reveal her gentle side.
This is a side of Alan that I never knew existed.
It's good you can see the funny side of the situation.
I'll take care of that side of things.
There was no side to him at all.
The French have a very strong side.
We were on the winning/losing side.
a cousin on my father's side (= a child of my father's brother or sister)
Your dinner comes with a choice of two sides.
What's on the other side?
There were two children ahead, walking side by side.
We have been using both systems, side by side, for two years.
The two communities exist happily side by side.
She didn't think it was wise to take sides in their argument.
They aren't likely to arrive this side of midnight.
The kids always sided with their mother against me.
a side order of fries
The picture shows a side view of the house.
The car hit us side-on.
side-splitting anecdotes
side-splittingly funny
The promoter provided free concerts as a sidebar to the festival.
Batman and his young sidekick Robin
The coach stood on the sidelines yelling instructions to the players.
The player has been sidelined by a knee injury.
The vice-president is increasingly being sidelined.
She cast a sidelong glance at Eric to see if he had noticed her blunder.
She looked sidelong at him.
Did you notice how she neatly sidestepped the question?
He cleverly sidestepped the tackle.
a sideswipe by a truck
It was a good speech, but he couldn't resist taking a sideswipe at his opponent.
The bus sideswiped two parked cars.
I was supposed to be writing a letter but I'm afraid I got sidetracked.
a sideward glance
He was blown sidewards by the wind.
He looked sideways at her.
The truck skidded sideways across the road.
He has been moved sideways (= moved to another job at the same level as before, not higher or lower).
She sat sideways on the chair.
She slid him a sideways glance.
a sideways move
She sidled up to me and whispered something in my ear.
the Sierra Nevada
to have/take a siesta
Sift the flour into a bowl.
We will sift every scrap of evidence.
Crash investigators have been sifting through the wreckage of the aircraft.
She looked quickly through the papers, sifting out from the pile anything that looked interesting.
Put the flour through a sieve to sift out the lumps.
We need to sift out the applications that have no chance of succeeding.
a sugar sifter
He sighed deeply at the thought.
She sighed with relief that it was all over.
'Oh well, better luck next time,' she sighed.
to give/heave/let out a sigh
a deep sigh
'I'll wait,' he said with a sigh.
We all breathed a sigh of relief when it was over.
to lose your sight (= to become blind)
She has very good sight.
The disease has affected her sight.
He has very little sight in his right eye.
After ten days at sea, we had our first sight of land.
I have been known to faint at the sight of blood.
The soldiers were given orders to shoot on sight (= as soon as they saw sb).
She caught sight of a car in the distance.
There was no one in sight.
At last we came in sight of a few houses.
A bicycle came into sight on the main road.
The end is in sight (= will happen soon).
Leave any valuables in your car out of sight.
Keep out of sight (= stay where you cannot be seen).
She never lets her daughter out of her sight (= always keeps her where she can see her).
Get out of my sight!(= Go away!)
The boat disappeared from sight.
The house was hidden from sight behind some trees.
He had placed himself directly in my line of sight.
He looked up the street, but there was no one in sight.
The lake soon came into view.
The couple moved outside her field of vision(= total area you can see from a particular position).
my/his/her etc. (field of) vision
The museum attempts to recreate the sights and sounds of wartime Britain.
He was a sorry sight, soaked to the skin and shivering.
The bird is now a rare sight in this country.
We're going to Paris for the weekend to see the sights.
She looks a sight in that hat!
He had the deer in his sights now.
(figurative) Even as a young actress, she always had Hollywood firmly in her sights (= as her final goal).
After twelve days at sea, they sighted land.
the blind parents of sighted children
partially sighted
short-sighted
long-sighted
a reported sighting of the Loch Ness monster
The statue stared down at them with sightless eyes.
to go sightseeing
Did you have a chance to do any sightseeing?
a sightseeing tour of the city
Oxford attracts large numbers of sightseers.
There is no sign of John anywhere.
Call the police at the first sign of trouble.
There was no sign of life in the house (= there seemed to be nobody there).
Her work is showing some signs of improvement.
The gloomy weather shows no sign of improving.
The fact that he didn't say 'no' immediately is a good sign.
If an interview is too easy, it's a sure sign that you haven't got the job.
If I had noticed the warning signs, none of this would have happened.
a road/traffic sign
a shop/pub sign
The sign on the wall said 'Now wash your hands'.
Follow the signs for the city centre.
He gave a thumbs-up sign.
She nodded as a sign for us to sit down.
a plus/minus sign (= +/−)
a dollar/pound sign (= $/£)
What sign are you?
Sign here, please.
Sign your name here, please.
You haven't signed the letter.
to sign a cheque
The treaty was signed on 24 March.
The player was signing autographs for a group of fans.
He signed himself 'Jimmy'.
United have just signed a new goalie.
He signed for United yesterday.
The band signed with Virgin Records.
The hotel manager signed to the porter to pick up my case.
She learnt to sign to help her deaf child.
An increasing number of plays are now being signed.
the signers of the petition
signers communicating information to deaf people
All visitors must sign in on arrival.
You must sign guests out when they leave the club.
She signed off with 'Yours, Janet'.
The President hasn't signed off on this report.
He signed on for five years in the army.
The company has signed up three top models for the fashion show.
She has signed the house over to her daughter.
How many countries have signed up to the Kyoto protocol on climate change?
We have about 100 people signed up to help so far.
a danger/warning/distress, etc. signal
At an agreed signal they left the room.
The siren was a signal for everyone to leave the building.
When I give the signal, run!
(NAmE) All I get is a busy signal when I dial his number (= his phone is being used).
hand signals (= movements that cyclists and drivers make with their hands to tell other people that they are going to stop, turn, etc.)
The rise in inflation is a clear signal that the government's policies are not working.
Chest pains can be a warning signal of heart problems.
Reducing prison sentences would send the wrong signals to criminals.
traffic signals
a stop signal
TV signals
a high-frequency signal
a radar signal
to detect/pick up signals
to emit a signal
I couldn't get a signal on my cell phone.
Don't fire until I signal.
Did you signal before you turned right?
He signalled to the waiter for the bill.
He signalled to us to join him.
She signalled him to follow.
The referee signalled a foul.
She signalled (that) it was time to leave.
You must signal which way you are going to turn.
This announcement signalled a clear change of policy.
The scandal surely signals the end of his political career.
He signalled his discontent by refusing to vote.
She has signalled (that) she is willing to stand as a candidate.
a signal honour
They have signally failed to keep their election promises.
a signatory of the Declaration of Independence
Many countries are signatories to/of the Berne Convention.
Someone had forged her signature on the cheque.
They collected 10 000 signatures for their petition.
He was attacked for having put his signature to the deal.
Two copies of the contract will be sent to you for signature.
Bright colours are his signature.
The two sets of figures are not significantly different.
Profits have increased significantly over the past few years.
Significantly, he did not deny that there might be an election.
She paused significantly before she answered.
a decision of major political significance
The new drug has great significance for the treatment of the disease.
They discussed the statistical significance of the results.
She couldn't grasp the full significance of what he had said.
Do these symbols have any particular significance?
a highly significant discovery
The results of the experiment are not statistically significant.
There are no significant differences between the two groups of students.
Your work has shown a significant improvement.
It is significant that girls generally do better in examinations than boys.
It is significant that he changed his will only days before his death.
a significant look/smile
This decision signified a radical change in their policies.
This mark signifies that the products conform to an approved standard.
The white belt signifies that he's an absolute beginner.
She signified her approval with a smile.
He nodded to signify that he agreed.
His presence no longer signified.
the signing of the Treaty of Rome
the use of signing in classrooms
Follow the signposts to the superstore.
(figurative) The chapter headings are useful signposts to the content of the book.
The route is well signposted.
You need to signpost for the reader the various points you are going to make.
Their footsteps echoed in the silence.
A scream broke the silence of the night.
I need absolute silence when I'm working.
an embarrassed/awkward silence
a moment's stunned silence
I got used to his long silences.
They finished their meal in total silence.
She lapsed into silence again.
There was a deafening silence (= one that is very noticeable).
a two-minute silence in honour of those who had died
She broke her public silence in a TV interview.
The company's silence on the subject has been taken as an admission of guilt.
the right to silence (= the legal right not to say anything when you are arrested)
There is a conspiracy of silence about what is happening (= everyone has agreed not to discuss it).
The phone call came after months of silence.
She silenced him with a glare.
Our bombs silenced the enemy's guns (= they destroyed them).
All protest had been silenced.
Her recent achievements have silenced her critics.
Silence in court!
to remain/stay/keep silent
They huddled together in silent groups.
As the curtain rose, the audience fell silent.
He gave me the silent treatment (= did not speak to me because he was angry).
He's the strong silent type.
At last the traffic fell silent.
The streets were silent and deserted.
a silent prayer/protest
They nodded in silent agreement.
The report is strangely silent on this issue.
the right to remain silent (= the legal right not to say anything when you are arrested)
a silent film/movie
stars of the silent screen
The 'b' in 'lamb' is silent.
They marched silently through the streets.
She crept silently out of the room.
She prayed silently.
He silently agreed with much of what she had said.
the silhouette of chimneys and towers
The mountains stood out in silhouette.
The dress is fitted to give you a flattering silhouette.
A figure stood in the doorway, silhouetted against the light.
aluminium silicate
a silicone breast implant
We have very similar interests.
My teaching style is similar to that of most other teachers.
The two houses are similar in size.
The brothers look very similar.
All our patients have broadly similar problems.
a silk blouse
silk stockings
made of pure silk
Her skin was as smooth as silk.
to take silk (= to become this type of lawyer)
silk-screen prints
Warhol's silk screen of Marilyn Monroe
silken hair
her silken voice
silken ribbons
silky fur
He spoke in a silky tone.
a silky dress
'How have I changed?' he asked silkily.
The leaves are grey and silky smooth.
a silly idea
That was a silly thing to do!
Her work is full of silly mistakes.
'I can walk home.' 'Don't be silly—it's much too far!'
You silly boy!
a silly sense of humour
a silly game
I feel silly in these clothes.
She had a silly grin on her face.
(especially BrE) I got it for a silly price (= very cheap).
We had to wear these silly little hats.
Why worry about a silly thing like that?
No, silly, those aren't your shoes!
Some departments have become silos and no longer communicate regularly with one another.
In some countries, the economy and foreign policy are considered in separate silos.
silty soils
Sand has silted up the river delta.
The harbour has now silted up.
a silver chain
made of solid silver
a silver mine
I need £2 in silver for the parking meter.
They've had to sell the family silver to pay the bills.
She won silver in last year's championships.
The team won two silvers and a bronze.
a silver car
silver hair
Moonlight was silvering the countryside.
the silver jubilee of the Queen's accession
The college celebrated its silver jubilee last year.
an Olympic silver medal winner
He's an Olympic silver medallist.
They celebrated their silver wedding in May.
a piece of silverware
silvery light
a silvery grey colour
Husband and wife were similarly successful in their chosen careers.
The United States won most of the track and field events. Similarly, in swimming, the top three places went to Americans.
The report highlights the similarity between the two groups.
She bears a striking similarity to her mother.
There is some similarity in the way they sing.
They are both doctors but that is where the similarity ends.
a study of the similarities and differences between the two countries
similarities in/of style
The karate bout has many similarities to a boxing match.
the similitude between humans and gorillas
Simmer the sauce gently for 10 minutes.
Leave the soup to simmer.
She was still simmering with resentment.
Anger simmered inside him.
This argument has been simmering for months.
I left him alone until he simmered down.
Bring the sauce to a simmer and cook for 5 minutes.
a silly simpering girl
'You're such a darling,' she simpered.
a simple solution
The answer is really quite simple.
This machine is very simple to use.
We lost because we played badly. It's as simple as that.
Give the necessary information but keep it simple.
simple but elegant clothes
We had a simple meal of soup and bread.
The accommodation is simple but spacious.
Nobody wanted to believe the simple truth.
It was a matter of simple survival.
It's nothing to worry about—just a simple headache.
I had to do it for the simple reason that (= because) I couldn't trust anyone else.
simple forms of life, for example amoebas
a simple machine
(grammar 语法) a simple sentence (= one with only one verb)
I'm a simple country girl.
He's not mad—just a little simple.
a simple-minded person
a simple-minded approach
Simply add hot water and stir.
The runway is simply a strip of grass.
Fame is often simply a matter of being in the right place at the right time.
You can enjoy all the water sports, or simply lie on the beach.
You simply must see the play.
The view is simply wonderful!
That is simply not true!
I haven't seen her for simply ages.
The book explains grammar simply and clearly.
Anyway, to put it simply, we still owe them £2 000.
The rooms are simply furnished.
They live simply (= they do not spend much money).
I don't want to be rude, it's simply that we have to be careful who we give this information to.
the relative simplicity of the new PC
For the sake of simplicity, let's divide the discussion into two parts.
the simplicity of the architecture
the simplicity of country living
the simplicities of our old way of life
Complaints have led to (a) simplification of the rules.
A number of simplifications have been made to the taxation system.
The application forms have now been simplified.
I hope his appointment will simplify matters.
a simplified version of the story for young children
I tried to simulate surprise at the news.
Computer software can be used to simulate conditions on the seabed.
a gas heater that simulates a coal fire
simulated leather
'How wonderful!' she said with simulated enthusiasm.
The experiments were carried out under simulated examination conditions.
a computer simulation of how the planet functions
a simulation model
the simulation of genuine concern
a flight simulator
You can either watch live coverage of the event on television or listen to the radio simulcast.
The show will be simulcast on television and the Internet.
There were several simultaneous attacks by the rebels.
simultaneous translation/interpreting
The game will be broadcast simultaneously on TV and radio.
to commit a sin
Confess your sins to God and he will forgive you.
The Bible says that stealing is a sin.
a life of sin
It's a sin to waste taxpayers' money like that.
Forgive me, Lord, for I have sinned.
He was more sinned against than sinning (= although he did wrong, other people treated him even worse).
a sincere attempt to resolve the problem
sincere regret
Please accept our sincere thanks.
a sincere apology
He seemed sincere enough when he said he wanted to help.
She is never completely sincere in what she says about people.
She spoke with total sincerity.
I can say in all sincerity that I knew nothing of these plans.
I sincerely believe that this is the right decision.
'I won't let you down.' 'I sincerely hope not.'
The case was adjourned sine die.
sinful thoughts
It is sinful to lie.
(informal) It's sinful to waste good food!
She usually sings in the shower.
I just can't sing in tune!
He was singing softly to the baby.
Will you sing a song to us?
Will you sing us a song?
Now I'd like to sing a song by the Beatles.
She sang the baby to sleep (= sang until the baby went to sleep).
The birds were singing outside my window.
Bullets sang past my ears.
Let's have a sing.
Do sing along if you know the words.
A voice suddenly sang out above the rest.
Sing up, let's hear you.
the smell of singeing fur
She's a wonderful singer.
the beautiful singing of birds
choral singing
There was singing and dancing all night.
a singing teacher
She has a beautiful singing voice.
He sent her a single red rose.
a single-sex school (= for boys only or for girls only)
All these jobs can now be done by one single machine.
I couldn't understand a single word she said!
the European single currency, the euro
(BrE) a single honours degree (= for which you study only one subject)
Unemployment is the single most important factor in the growing crime rates.
We eat rice every single day.
The apartments are ideal for single people living alone.
Are you still single?
a single bed/room
a single ticket
How much is the single fare to Glasgow?
How much is a single to York?
The band releases its new single next week.
They organize parties for singles.
a singles bar/club
the women's singles champion
the first round of the men's singles
a singles match
She's won three singles titles this year.
She was singled out for criticism.
He was singled out as the outstanding performer of the games.
Inflation is down to single figures.
The number of people who fail each year is now in single figures.
a single-parent family
to sail around the world single-handed
a single-handed voyage
the single-minded pursuit of power
She is very single-minded about her career.
disposable single-use cameras
The stamps are available singly or in books of ten.
Guests arrived singly or in groups.
The singular of 'bacteria' is 'bacterium'.
The verb should be in the singular.
a singular noun/verb/ending
landscape of singular beauty
a singular style of dress
singularly beautiful
He chose a singularly inappropriate moment to make his request.
There was something cold and sinister about him.
There is another, more sinister, possibility.
The ship sank to the bottom of the sea.
We're sinking!
The wheels started to sink into the mud.
to sink like a stone
a battleship sunk by a torpedo
I sank into an armchair.
She sank back into her seat, exhausted.
The old man had sunk to his knees.
The sun was sinking in the west.
The foundations of the building are starting to sink.
The pound has sunk to its lowest recorded level against the dollar.
He is clearly sinking fast (= getting weaker quickly and will soon die).
Her voice sank to a whisper.
to sink a well/shaft/mine
to sink a post into the ground
I think I've just sunk my chances of getting the job.
If the car breaks down, we'll be sunk (= have serious problems).
He sank a 12-foot putt to win the match.
The new students were just left to sink or swim.
He paused to allow his words to sink in.
The full scale of the disaster has yet to sink in.
The rain sank into the dry ground.
She sank into a deep sleep.
He sank deeper into depression.
The dog sank its teeth into my leg (= bit it).
I felt her nails sink into my wrist.
We sank all our savings into the venture.
Don't just leave your dirty plates in the sink!
I felt chained to the kitchen sink (= I had to spend all my time doing jobs in the house).
the misery of life in sink estates
a sink school
Sino-Japanese relations
a sinuous movement
the sinuous grace of a cat
the sinuous course of the river
blocked sinuses
She sat there, sipping at her tea.
He slowly sipped his wine.
to have/take a sip of water
I siphoned the gasoline out of the car into a can.
The waste liquid needs to be siphoned off.
She has been accused of siphoning off thousands of pounds from the company into her own bank account.
Good morning, sir. Can I help you?
Are you ready to order, sir?
'Report to me tomorrow, corporal!' 'Yes, sir!'
'Thank you very much.' 'You're welcome, sir. Have a nice day.'
Dear Sir/Sirs
Dear Sir or Madam
Sir Paul McCartney
Thank you, Sir Paul.
Please, sir, can I open a window?
That's a fine car you have. Yes sir!
He's not going to do it, no siree.
an air-raid siren
A police car raced past with its siren wailing.
The government must resist the siren voices calling for tax cuts.
She's my sister.
an older/younger sister
(informal) a big/little/kid sister
We're sisters.
Do you have any brothers or sisters?
My best friend has been like a sister to me (= very close).
They supported their sisters in the dispute.
Sister Mary
the Sisters of Charity
our sister company in Italy
a sister ship
She gave him a sisterly kiss.
She sat and stared at the letter in front of her.
Just sit still!
He went and sat beside her.
She was sitting at her desk.
He lifted the child and sat her on the wall.
A large bus was sitting outside.
The pot was sitting in a pool of water.
The jacket sat beautifully on her shoulders (= fitted well).
The box sat unopened on the shelf.
He was sitting as a temporary judge.
They both sat as MPs in the House of Commons.
She sat on a number of committees.
For years he sat for Henley (= was the MP for that constituency ).
Parliament sits for less than six months of the year.
(BrE) Candidates will sit the examinations in June.
Most of the students sit at least 5 GCSEs.
(especially NAmE) He was about to sit for his entrance exam.
Rover! Sit!
Who's sitting for you?
His views did not sit comfortably with the management line.
We sat tight and waited to be rescued.
Shareholders are being advised to sit tight until the crisis passes.
I'm far too busy to sit around here.
He just sits around watching TV.
He sat back in his chair and started to read.
She's not the kind of person who can sit back and let others do all the work.
We cannot just sit by and watch this tragedy happen.
He sat down on the bed.
They sat down to consider the problem.
This is something that we should sit down and discuss as a team.
to sit for your portrait
She sat for Augustus John.
They have been sitting on my application for a month now.
We sat out the storm in a cafe.
We had to sit through nearly two hours of speeches.
Sit up straight—don't slouch.
We sat up half the night, talking.
The proposal had made his clients sit up and take notice.
I need a cup of tea and a sit-down.
a sit-down protest (= in which people sit down to block a road or the entrance to a building until people listen to their demands)
a sit-down meal for 50 wedding guests (= served to people sitting at tables)
to hold/stage a sit-in
the site of a sixteenth century abbey
to work on a building/construction site
A site has been chosen for the new school.
All the materials are on site so that work can start immediately.
the site of the battle
an archaeological site
a camping/caravan site
There was a meeting to discuss the siting of the new school.
The castle is magnificently sited high up on a cliff.
A hundred people can be served at one sitting (= at the same time).
I read the book in one sitting.
Let me try and situate the events in their historical context.
My bedroom was situated on the top floor of the house.
The hotel is beautifully situated in a quiet spot near the river.
All the best theatres and restaurants are situated within a few minutes' walk of each other.
Small businesses are well situated to benefit from the single market.
to be in a difficult situation
You could get into a situation where you have to decide immediately.
We have all been in similar embarrassing situations.
the present economic/financial/political, etc. situation
He could see no way out of the situation.
In your situation, I would look for another job.
What we have here is a crisis situation.
I'm in a no-win situation (= whatever I do will be bad for me).
The town is in a delightful situation in a wide green valley.
Situations Vacant (= the title of the section in a newspaper where jobs are advertised)
a six-figure salary
Sue is in the sixth form now.
My sixth sense told me to stay here and wait.
an area the size of (= the same size as) Wales
They complained about the size of their gas bill.
Dogs come in all shapes and sizes.
The facilities are excellent for a town that size.
The kitchen is a good size (= not small).
It's similar in size to a tomato.
You should have seen the size of their house!
We were shocked at the size of his debts.
The jacket was the wrong size.
It's not my size.
They didn't have the jacket in my size.
She's a size 12 in clothes.
The hats are made in three sizes: small, medium and large.
I need a bigger/smaller size.
What size do you take?
She takes (a) size 5 in shoes.
Do you have these shoes in (a) size 5?
Try this one for size (= to see if it is the correct size).
The glass can be cut to size (= cut to the exact measurements) for you.
a medium-sized house
Cut it into bite-size pieces.
'So they won't pay up?' 'That's about the size of it.'
The screws are sized in millimetres.
The fonts can be sized according to what effect you want.
She knew that he was looking at her, sizing her up.
He sized up the situation very quickly.
size zero models and celebrities
She is a size zero.
The town has a sizeable Sikh population.
sizzling sausages
The screen sizzles whenever she appears on it.
sizzling summer temperatures
a sizzling love affair
Can you skate?
It was so cold that we were able to go skating on the lake.
He skated an exciting programme at the American Championships.
He politely skated over the issue.
a pair of skates
a skateboard park/ramp
a skateboarding magazine
a figure/speed skater
Extreme skaters perform jumps, spins, flips, etc.
to go skating
skeletal figures dressed in rags
He has written only a skeletal plot for the book so far.
The human skeleton consists of 206 bones.
a dinosaur skeleton
Only the concrete skeleton of the factory remained.
Examples were used to flesh out the skeleton of the argument.
There will only be a skeleton staff on duty over the holiday.
We managed to operate a skeleton bus service during the strike.
Canada won gold and silver in the skeleton.
I am skeptical about his chances of winning.
The public remain skeptical of these claims.
She looked highly skeptical.
Such claims should be regarded with a certain amount of skepticism.
The artist is making sketches for his next painting.
She drew a sketch map of the area to show us the way.
The drama group did a sketch about a couple buying a new car.
a biographical sketch of the Prime Minister
He quickly sketched the view from the window.
She sketched out her plan for tackling the problem.
He gave us a very sketchy account of his visit.
sketchy notes
Skeuomorphs are becoming very common in digital products: online calendars set up to look like paper, a shopping cart on an e-commerce site.
to skew the statistics
The ball skewed off at a right angle.
He was riding a skewbald.
skewed statistics
The book is heavily skewed towards American readers.
The car had ended up skewed across the road.
a pair of skis
ski boots
the ski slopes
We went skiing in France in March.
Is ski jumping an Olympic sport?
the Swiss ski-jumping team
The car skidded on the ice and went straight into the wall.
The taxi skidded to a halt just in time.
Her foot skidded on the wet floor and she fell heavily.
The motorbike went into a skid.
The skid marks on the road showed how fast the car had been travelling.
the skids of a helicopter
to be on skid row
What's that in the sky?
The sky suddenly went dark and it started to rain.
the night sky
a cloudless sky
cloudless skies
a land of blue skies and sunshine
The skies above London were ablaze with a spectacular firework display.
She skied her tee shot.
to go skiing
downhill/cross-country skiing
a skiing holiday/instructor/lesson/vacation
a skilful player/performer/teacher
Thanks to her skilful handling of the affair, the problem was averted.
The job requires skill and an eye for detail.
What made him remarkable as a photographer was his skill in capturing the moment.
We need people with practical skills like carpentry.
management skills
a skilled engineer/negotiator/craftsman
a shortage of skilled labour (= people who have had training in a skill)
She is highly skilled at dealing with difficult customers.
Furniture-making is very skilled work.
Skim the scum off the jam and let it cool.
Skim the jam and let it cool.
We watched the birds skimming over the lake.
The speedboat took off, skimming the waves.
(figurative) This report has barely skimmed the surface of the subject.
(BrE) Small boys were skimming stones across the water.
He skimmed through the article trying to find his name.
I always skim the financial section of the newspaper.
Older people should not skimp on food or heating.
a skimpy dress
a skimpy meal
They provided only skimpy details.
to have dark/fair/olive, etc. skin
The snake sheds its skin once a year.
cosmetics for sensitive skins
skin cancer
dark-skinned
fair-skinned
The skins are removed and laid out to dry.
a tiger skin rug
Remove the skins by soaking the tomatoes in hot water.
Prick the skins before grilling.
A skin had formed on the top of the milk.
the outer skin of the earth
the metal skin of the aircraft
You can create your own custom skin for your iPod.
You'll need four ripe tomatoes, skinned and chopped.
He skinned his knees climbing down the tree.
to go skin-diving
They talk a lot of skinder.
He loves to skinder.
She wondered what they were skindering about.
The program shows a skinnable quick calendar window.
skinny legs
a skinny sweater
a skinny latte
This book gives you the skinny on Hollywood.
She skipped happily along beside me.
The girls were skipping in the playground.
She likes to skip rope as a warm-up.
I often skip breakfast altogether.
(especially NAmE) She decided to skip class that afternoon.
You can skip the next chapter if you have covered the topic in class.
I skipped over the last part of the book.
I suggest we skip to the last item on the agenda.
She kept skipping from one topic of conversation to another.
The bombers skipped the country shortly after the blast.
The boys were skipping stones across the pond.
'What were you saying?' 'Oh, skip it!'
She gave a skip and a jump and was off down the street.
to skipper a yacht
(especially BrE) He skippered the team to victory.
There are reports of skirmishing along the border.
a long/short/straight/pleated, etc. skirt
the rubber skirt around the bottom of a hovercraft
They followed the road that skirted the lake.
I skirted around the field and crossed the bridge.
He carefully skirted the issue of where they would live.
She tactfully skirted around the subject of money.
a skit on daytime TV programmes
skittish financial markets
'Where's Tom?' 'Skiving as usual.'
She always skives off early on Fridays.
I skived the last lecture.
He treats his wife like a skivvy.
There was someone skulking behind the bushes.
a fractured skull
Her skull was crammed with too many thoughts.
(informal) When will he get it into his thick skull that I never want to see him again!
His confidence is still sky-high.
sky-high interest rates
After the election, prices went sky-high.
to go skydiving
the New York skyline
Broadcasters are using Skype for interviews.
I'll Skype you later.
She Skypes with her grandchildren.
She pointed skywards.
The rocket soared skywards.
a slab of marble/concrete
The road was paved with smooth stone slabs.
paving slabs
a dead body on the slab (= on a table in a mortuary )
a slab of chocolate
slabs of meat
She was staring into space, her mouth slack.
The rope suddenly went slack.
slack muscles
a slack period
He's been very slack in his work lately.
Discipline in the classroom is very slack.
Her arms hung slackly by her sides.
There's too much slack in the tow rope.
There's very little slack in the budget.
We've been really busy, but things are starting to slacken off now.
She slackened her pace a little (= walked a little more slowly).
His grip slackened and she pulled away from him.
He slackened the ropes slightly.
a pair of slacks
I hate the way he's always slagging off his colleagues.
He got a slagging from bloggers about his recent comments.
I heard the door slam behind him.
A window slammed shut in the wind.
He stormed out of the house, slamming the door as he left.
She slammed the lid shut.
She slammed out of the room (= went out and slammed the door behind her).
She slammed down the phone angrily.
He slammed on the brakes (= stopped the car very suddenly).
She gave the door a good hard slam.
Politically, this issue is a slam dunk for the party.
a vicious slander on the company's good name
He's suing them for slander.
a slanderous remark
He angrily accused the investigators of slandering both him and his family.
teenage slang
a slang word/expression/term
a slangy style
(literary) The sun slanted through the window.
Slant your skis a little more to the left.
The findings of the report had been slanted in favour of the manufacturers.
The sofa faced the fire at a slant.
Cut the flower stems on the slant.
She put a new slant on the play.
She had slanted brown eyes.
a biased and slanted view of events
slanting eyes/handwriting/rain
She slapped his face hard.
She slapped him hard across the face.
'Congratulations!' he said, slapping me on the back.
He slapped the newspaper down on the desk.
She slapped a $10 bill into my hand.
The water slapped against the side of the boat.
Her ex-husband used to slap her around.
The company slapped a ban on using email on the staff.
They've slapped 50p on the price of a pack of cigarettes.
Just slap some paint on the walls and it'll look fine.
I'd better slap some make-up on before I go out.
She gave him a slap across the face.
He gave me a hearty slap on the back.
the gentle slap of water against the shore
Storming out of her room, she went slap into Luke.
Their apartment is slap bang in the middle of town.
a slap-happy approach to life
She has a very slapdash approach to keeping accounts.
a slapdash piece of writing
Someone had slashed the tyres on my car.
She tried to kill herself by slashing her wrists.
We had to slash our way through the undergrowth with sticks.
to slash costs/prices/fares, etc.
a slash across his right cheek
(figurative) Her mouth was a slash of red lipstick.
He's just nipped out to have a slash.
slash-and-burn agriculture
The sea was the colour of slate.
A loose slate had fallen from the roof.
a slate of candidates
the Democratic slate
to slate a book/play/writer
The houses were first slated for demolition five years ago.
The new store is slated to open in spring.
I was told that I was being slated for promotion.
He is slated to play the lead in the new musical.
a slated roof
hot dogs slathered with mustard
a slaty sky
slaty rock
slatted blinds
a slatternly girl
cows taken for slaughter
the wholesale slaughter of innocent people
Men, women and children were slaughtered and villages destroyed.
We were slaughtered 10–1 by the home team.
She treated her daughter like a slave.
We are slaves of the motor car.
Sue's a slave to fashion.
I've been slaving away all day trying to get this work finished.
I haven't got time to spend hours slaving over a hot stove (= doing a lot of cooking).
Huge palaces were built by slave labour.
I left because the job was just slave labour.
slavering dogs
to be sold into slavery
a slavish adherence to the rules
St George slew the dragon.
Two passengers were slain by the hijackers.
Those old movies still slay me!
the drug-related slayings of five people
a dress with short/long sleeves
Dan rolled up his sleeves and washed his hands.
a colourful sleeve design
a sleeveless dress
allegations of sleaze
The candidate was seriously damaged by the sleaze factor.
the sleaze of a town that was once a naval base
a sleazy bar
a sleazy reporter
We were hoping we could go sledging.
to go sledging
sleek black hair
the sleek dark head of a seal
a sleek yacht
the sleek lines of the new car
a sleek and ambitious politician
His glossy hair was sleeked back over his ears.
An orange light indicates that the monitor is in sleep mode.
a heavy/light/sound sleeper
Only the snores of the sleepers broke the silence of the house.
the London–Edinburgh sleeper
a sleepy child
He had begun to feel sleepy.
The heat and the wine made her sleepy.
a sleepy little town
She yawned sleepily.
OK, Sleeping Beauty, time to get up.
I've had a few sleepless nights recently.
She lay sleepless until dawn.
to suffer from sleeplessness
Come on sleepyhead—time to get up.
a sleigh ride
The trick is done simply by sleight of hand.
Last year's profits were more the result of financial sleight of hand than genuine growth.
her slender figure
long, slender fingers
a glass with a slender stem
to win by a slender margin/majority
people of slender means (= with little money)
Australia held a slender 1–0 lead at half-time.
an amateur sleuth
to do some private sleuthing
The car skidded and slewed sideways.
He slewed the motorbike over as they hit the freeway.
a slice of bread
Cut the meat into thin slices.
Our firm is well placed to grab a large slice of the market.
a fish slice
a cake slice
to slice (up) onions
Slice the cucumber thinly.
a sliced loaf
He accidentally sliced through his finger.
A piece of glass sliced into his shoulder.
(figurative) Her speech sliced through all the confusion surrounding the situation.
The knife sliced his jacket.
He sliced the fruit open.
(figurative) The ship sliced the water.
He managed to slice a shot over the net.
The new tax has sliced annual bonuses by 30 percent.
The software lets you slice and dice the data and display it in different formats.
Slice a piece off.
(figurative) He sliced two seconds off the world record.
a loaf of sliced bread
a slick advertising campaign
a slick performance
slick TV presenters
a slick salesman
The crowd enjoyed the team's slick passing.
a slick gear change
The roads were slick with rain.
The magazine is slickly produced.
a slick of sweat
His hair was slicked back/down with gel.
We slid down the grassy slope.
The drawers slide in and out easily.
She slid her hand along the rail.
The automatic doors slid open.
He slid into bed.
She slid out while no one was looking.
The man slid the money quickly into his pocket.
Shares slid to a 10-year low.
The industry has slid into decline.
They were sliding towards bankruptcy.
He got depressed and began to let things slide (= failed to give things the attention they needed).
a downward slide in the price of oil
the team's slide down the table
talks to prevent a slide into civil war
The economy is on the slide (= getting worse).
Her car went into a slide.
to go down the slide
I was afraid of starting a slide of loose stones.
a talk with colour slides
I'm still working on the slides for my presentation.
a slideshow presentation
Fees are calculated on a sliding scale according to income (= richer people pay more).
a slight increase/change/delay/difference
I woke up with a slight headache.
The damage was slight.
She takes offence at the slightest thing (= is very easily offended).
There was not the slightest hint of trouble.
a slight woman
This is a very slight novel.
Nick took her comment as a slight on his abilities as a manager.
She felt slighted because she hadn't been invited.
slighting remarks
a slightly different version
We took a slightly more direct route.
I knew her slightly.
'Are you worried?' 'Only slightly.'
a slim figure/body/waist
She was tall and slim.
How do you manage to stay so slim?
(figurative) Many companies are a lot slimmer than they used to be (= have fewer workers).
a slim volume of poetry
a slim chance of success
The party was returned to power with a slim majority.
You can still eat breakfast when you are slimming.
They're restructuring and slimming down the workforce.
The industry may have to slim down even further.
the new, slimmed-down company
The pond was full of mud and green slime.
thick slimy mud
The walls were black, cold and slimy.
a slimline phone
slimline tonic water
a calorie-controlled diet for slimmers
a slimming club
Don't just sling your clothes on the floor.
Sling me an apple, will you?
Her bag was slung over her shoulder.
We slung a hammock between two trees.
They were slung out of the club for fighting.
He had his arm in a sling.
The engine was lifted in a sling of steel rope.
John was trying to slink into the house by the back door.
The dog howled and slunk away.
She slipped over on the ice and broke her leg.
As I ran up the stairs, my foot slipped and I fell.
His hat had slipped over one eye.
The fish slipped out of my hand.
The child slipped from his grasp and ran off.
(figurative) She was careful not to let her control slip.
She slipped out of the house before the others were awake.
The ship slipped into the harbour at night.
(figurative) She knew that time was slipping away.
Anna slipped her hand into his.
I managed to slip a few jokes into my speech.
I managed to slip in a few jokes.
They'd slipped some money to the guards.
They'd slipped the guards some money.
His popularity has slipped recently.
That's three times she's beaten me—I must be slipping!
He began to slip into debt.
The patient had slipped into a coma.
We seem to have slipped behind schedule.
to slip into/out of a dress
to slip your shoes on/off
He slipped a coat over his sweatshirt.
The ship had slipped its moorings in the night.
The animal had slipped free and escaped.
Their support gradually slipped away.
I'm sorry I said that. It just slipped out.
We can't afford to slip up.
He recited the whole poem without making a single slip.
I wrote it down on a slip of paper.
a betting slip
One slip and you could fall to your death.
a pair of slip-ons
slip-on shoes
a pair of slippers
slippered feet
slippery like a fish
In places the path can be wet and slippery.
His hand was slippery with sweat.
Don't believe what he says—he's a slippery customer (= person).
Freedom is a slippery concept (= because its meaning changes according to your point of view).
a long skirt with a slit up the side
His eyes narrowed into slits.
Slit the roll with a sharp knife.
The child's throat had been slit.
Her skirt was slit at both sides (= designed with an opening at the bottom on each side).
He slit open the envelope and took out the letter.
The snake slithered away as we approached.
We slithered down the slope to the road.
They were slithering around on the ice.
slivers of glass
(figurative) A sliver of light showed under the door.
Get out of bed, you fat slob!
He's been slogging away at that piece of music for weeks.
The teacher made us slog through long lists of vocabulary.
She slogged her way through four piles of ironing.
I've been slogging around the streets of London all day.
He started to slog his way through the undergrowth.
Writing the book took ten months of hard slog.
It was a long slog to the top of the mountain.
an advertising slogan
a campaign slogan
The crowd began chanting anti-government slogans.
Water was slopping around in the bottom of the boat.
As he put the glass down the beer slopped over onto the table.
He got out of the bath, slopping water over the sides.
She slopped some beans onto a plate.
He used to slop around all day in his pyjamas.
a slop bucket
a grassy slope
The town is built on a slope.
the eastern slopes of the Andes
ski slopes
He spends all winter on the slopes (= skiing ).
a gentle/steep slope
a slope of 45 degrees
the angle of slope
The garden slopes away towards the river.
sloping shoulders
His handwriting slopes backwards.
It was a very old house with sloping walls.
They got bored waiting for him and sloped off.
sloppy thinking
Your work is sloppy.
a sloppy worker
a sloppy T-shirt
a sloppy love story
Don't make the mixture too sloppy.
(informal) She gave him a big sloppy kiss.
a sloppily run department
There is no excuse for sloppiness in your work.
The water was sloshing around under our feet.
Some of the paint sloshed out of the can.
The children were sloshing water everywhere.
She sloshed coffee into the mugs.
We all sloshed around in the puddles.
to put some coins in the slot
He has a regular slot on the late-night programme.
Their album has occupied the Number One slot for the past six weeks.
the airport's take-off and landing slots
He slotted a disk into the drive.
The bed comes in sections which can be quickly slotted together.
The dishwasher slots neatly between the cupboards.
I can slot you in between 3 and 4.
We slotted in some extra lessons before the exam.
Sit up straight. Don't slouch.
his slouchy posture
The slouchy suede boots look great with slim pants.
a snake sloughing its skin
Slough off dead skin cells by using a facial scrub.
Responsibilities are not sloughed off so easily.
He grew lazy and slovenly in his habits.
a slow driver
Progress was slower than expected.
The country is experiencing slow but steady economic growth.
Collecting data is a painfully slow process.
a slow, lingering death
Oh you're so slow; come on, hurry up!
The slow movement opens with a cello solo.
She gave a slow smile.
I missed the fast train and had to get the slow one (= the one that stops at all the stations).
She wasn't slow to realize what was going on.
His poetry was slow in achieving recognition.
They were very slow paying me.
He's the slowest in the class.
Sales are slow (= not many goods are being sold).
My watch is five minutes slow (= it shows 1.45 when it is 1.50).
There was impatience over the slowness of reform.
Could you go a little slower?
slow-drying paint
slow-moving traffic
(NAmE) Drive slow!
Slow. Major road ahead.
a slow-acting drug
Can you speak slower/more slowly?
Economic growth has slowed a little.
The bus slowed to a halt.
The car slowed down as it approached the junction.
The game slowed up little in the second half.
You must slow down (= work less hard) or you'll make yourself ill.
The ice on the roads was slowing us down.
We hope to slow the spread of the disease.
Some scenes were filmed in slow motion.
a slow-motion replay
a slowdown in economic growth
to move slowly
Please could you speak more slowly?
The boat chugged slowly along.
He found that life moved slowly in the countryside.
Don't rush into a decision. Take it slowly.
Slowly things began to improve.
We'll get there slowly but surely.
There was some sludge at the bottom of the tank.
industrial sludge
the use of sewage sludge as a fertilizer on farm land
He took another slug of whisky.
The battle between the two Democrats is turning into a nasty little slugfest.
Hang in there, slugger. You can do it!
sluggish traffic
a sluggish economy
the sluggish black waters of the canal
He felt very heavy and sluggish after the meal.
The ship's crew was sluicing down the deck.
a slum area
city/urban slums
She was brought up in the slums of Leeds.
There are plenty of ways you can cut costs on your trip without slumming.
Several businessmen had to slum it in economy class.
She fell into a deep and peaceful slumber.
Sales have slumped this year.
Profits slumped by over 50%.
The paper's circulation has slumped to 90 000.
The old man slumped down in his chair.
She slumped to her knees.
a slump in profits
the slump of the 1930s
The toy industry is in a slump.
The driver was slumped exhausted over the wheel.
She had drunk too much and her speech was slurred.
She had dared to cast a slur on his character.
(especially NAmE) The crowd started throwing bottles and shouting racial slurs.
He was slurping his tea.
She slurped noisily from her cup.
The water slurped in the tank.
She took a slurp from her mug.
In the city the clean white snow had turned to grey slush.
slushy pavements
slushy romantic fiction
a sly political move
(humorous) You sly old devil! How long have you known?
a sly smile/grin/look/glance, etc.
He glanced at her slyly.
I think it's wrong to smack children.
She smacked her hand down on to the table.
He smacked a fist into the palm of his hand.
Two players accidentally smacked into each other.
Her behaviour smacks of hypocrisy.
Today's announcement smacks of a government cover-up.
You'll get a smack on your backside if you're not careful.
a smack on the jaw
She closed the ledger with a smack.
a smack on the lips/cheek
smack addicts
It landed smack in the middle of the carpet.
The car drove smack into a brick wall.
He gave both of the children a good smacking.
We don't approve of smacking.
a small house/town/car/man
A much smaller number of students passed than I had expected.
They're having a relatively small wedding.
That dress is too small for you.
'I don't agree,' he said in a small (= quiet) voice.
This is too big—have you got a small one?
the small intestine
They have three small children.
We travelled around a lot when I was small.
As a small boy he had spent most of his time with his grandparents.
I made only a few small changes to the report.
She noticed several small errors in his work.
Everything had been planned down to the smallest detail.
It was no small achievement getting her to agree to the deal.
a small farmer
The government is planning to give more help to small businesses.
Should I write 'god' with a small 'g' or a capital?
She's a socialist with a small 's' (= she has socialist ideas but is not a member of a socialist party).
The government has small cause for optimism.
They have small hope of succeeding.
Chop the cabbage up small.
You can fit it all in if you write very small.
Have you got any small change for the phone?
That holiday cost me a small fortune.
That's small fry to her.
People like us are small fry to such a large business.
Read all the small print before signing.
This will be the film's first showing on the small screen.
his first small-screen role
small-bore issues
small-scale farming
a small-scale study of couples in second marriages
a small-time crook
small-town values
small-town America (= people who live in small towns in America)
a smallish town
a smarmy salesman
You look very smart in that suit.
They were wearing their smartest clothes.
That was a smart career move.
OK, I admit it was not the smartest thing I ever did (= it was a stupid thing to do).
smart restaurants
She mixes with the smart set.
He was struck with a smart crack on the head.
We set off at a smart pace.
smart bombs
This smart washing machine will dispense an optimal amount of water for the load.
smartly dressed
He ran off pretty smartly (= quickly and suddenly).
His eyes were smarting from the smoke.
They are still smarting from the 4–0 defeat last week.
It seems the smart money is no longer in insurance (= is no longer being invested in insurance companies).
The smart money is on him for the best actor award.
The smart money says that he's likely to withdraw from the leadership campaign.
The hotel has been smartened up by the new owners.
We set off at a smartish pace.
You'd better move smartish.
She made it to the top on her smarts.
Several windows had been smashed.
He smashed the radio to pieces.
The glass bowl smashed into a thousand pieces.
the sound of waves smashing against the rocks
The car smashed into a tree.
Mark smashed his fist down on the desk.
They had to smash holes in the ice.
The elephant smashed its way through the trees.
We had to smash the door open.
They had smashed through a glass door to get in.
He smashed the ball into the goal.
Police say they have smashed a major drugs ring.
She has smashed the world record (= broken it by a large amount).
He's smashed (up) his new car.
The police had to smash the door down.
Vandals had smashed the door in.
(informal) I wanted to smash his face in (= hit him hard in the face).
Youths had broken into the bar and smashed the place up.
The cup hit the floor with a smash.
a car smash
her latest chart smash
a smash-and-grab raid
We had a smashing time.
He only has a smattering of French.
The children had smeared mud on the walls.
The children had smeared the walls with mud.
His glasses were smeared.
smeared windows
The story was an attempt to smear the party leader.
The last few words of the letter were smeared.
a smear of jam
He was a victim of a smear campaign.
The room smelt damp.
Dinner smells good.
a bunch of sweet-smelling flowers
His breath smelt of garlic.
What does the perfume smell like?
He said he could smell gas when he entered the room.
The dog had smelt a rabbit.
I could smell alcohol on his breath.
Can you smell something burning?
I could smell that something was burning.
I can't smell because I've got a bad cold.
Smell this and tell me what you think it is.
I bent down to smell the flowers.
The drains smell.
It smells in here.
He hadn't washed for days and was beginning to smell.
He smelt danger.
I can smell trouble.
He could always smell out fear.
dogs trained to smell out drugs
a faint/strong smell of garlic
a sweet/fresh/musty smell
There was a smell of burning in the air.
The smells from the kitchen filled the room.
What's that smell?
Yuk! What a smell!
Dogs have a very good sense of smell.
Taste and smell are closely connected.
He took one smell of the liquid and his eyes began to water.
smelly feet
a method of smelting iron
'Sugar?' 'Just a smidgen.'
to smile sweetly/faintly/broadly, etc.
He smiled with relief.
He never seems to smile.
She smiled at him and he smiled back.
I had to smile at (= was amused by) his optimism.
She smiled her thanks.
'Perfect,' he smiled.
to smile a small smile
She smiled a smile of dry amusement.
'Oh, hello,' he said, with a smile.
She gave a wry smile.
He had a big smile on his face.
I'm going to wipe that smile off your face (= make you stop thinking this is funny).
It was hard not to smirk.
He smirked unpleasantly when we told him the bad news.
She had a self-satisfied smirk on her face.
From the moment they met, he was completely smitten by her.
an artist's smock
There's still some wine in the bottle.
Have some more vegetables.
I don't want any more vegetables.
Is there any wine left?
Would you like some milk in your coffee?
Didn't you borrow some books of mine?
Some people find this more difficult than others.
I like some modern music (= but not all of it).
It was with some surprise that I heard the news.
We've known each other for some years now.
We're going to be working together for some time (= a long time).
There is some hope that things will improve.
There must be some mistake.
He's in some kind of trouble.
She won a competition in some newspaper or other.
I'll see you again some time, I'm sure.
That was some party!
Some expert you are! You know even less than me.
Some disapprove of the idea.
You'll find some in the drawer.
Here are some of our suggestions.
I don't want any.
Do you have any of the larger ones?
Would you like some?
Weren't you looking for some of those?
All these students are good, but some work harder than others.
Some of the music was weird.
Some thirty people attended the funeral.
He needs feeding up some.
'Are you finding the work any easier?' 'Some.'
attempts to reduce smog caused by traffic fumes
cigarette smoke
Clouds of thick black smoke billowed from the car's exhaust.
Are you coming outside for a smoke?
He was smoking a large cigar.
How many cigarettes do you smoke a day?
Do you mind if I smoke?
Do you smoke?
She smokes heavily.
smoking factory chimneys
the smoking remains of burnt-out cars
to smoke out wasps from a nest
The police are determined to smoke out the leaders of the gang.
a smoke-free working environment
smokeless fuels
a smokeless zone (= where smoke from factories or houses is not allowed)
a heavy smoker (= sb who smokes a lot)
a smoker's cough
a cigarette/cigar/pipe smoker
a smoky atmosphere
a smoky pub
a smoky fire
a smoky flavour
smoky blue glass
No Smoking (= for example, on a notice)
Would you like smoking or non-smoking?(= for example, in a restaurant)
He's trying to give up smoking.
This memo could be the smoking gun that investigators have been looking for.
What's wrong with a bit of smoodge between friends?
a lotion to make your skin feel soft and smooth
The water was as smooth as glass.
a paint that gives a smooth, silky finish
Over the years, the stone steps had worn smooth.
Mix the flour with the milk to form a smooth paste.
They are introducing new measures to ensure the smooth running of the business.
They could not ensure a smooth transfer of political power.
The car's improved suspension gives you a smoother ride.
The plane made a smooth landing.
She swung herself over the gate in one smooth movement.
I don't like him. He's far too smooth for me.
He's something of a smooth operator.
This coffee has a smooth, rich taste.
the smoothness of her skin
They admired the smoothness and efficiency with which the business was run.
He smoothed his hair back.
She was smoothing out the creases in her skirt.
He took the letter and smoothed it flat on the table.
Smooth the icing over the top of the cake.
She spoke to both sides in the dispute in an attempt to smooth things over.
Traffic is now flowing smoothly again.
The engine was running smoothly.
The interview went smoothly.
'Would you like to come this way?' he said smoothly.
The colours blend smoothly together.
He smothered the baby with a pillow.
a rich dessert smothered in cream
She smothered him with kisses.
to smother a yawn/giggle/grin
The voices of the opposition were effectively smothered.
Her husband was very loving, but she felt smothered.
He tried to smother the flames with a blanket.
The bonfire was still smouldering the next day.
a smouldering cigarette
(figurative) The feud smouldered on for years.
His eyes smouldered with anger.
Anger smouldered in his eyes.
I'm trying to send an SMS.
He SMSed me every day.
If you have any comments, just email or SMS.
She spends her time chatting and SMSing.
a smudge of lipstick on a cup
He had smudged his signature with his sleeve.
Tears had smudged her mascara.
Her lipstick had smudged.
The mirror was smudged with fingerprints.
a smug expression/smile/face, etc.
What are you looking so smug about?
They were caught smuggling diamonds into the country.
He managed to smuggle a gun into the prison.
smuggled drugs
drug smuggling
smutty jokes
a mid-morning snack
I only have time for a snack at lunchtime.
Do you serve bar snacks?
a snack lunch
It'll be a snack.
It's healthier to snack on fruit rather than chocolate.
It was another bureaucratic snafu.
There is just one small snag—where is the money coming from?
Let me know if you run into any snags.
I snagged my sweater on the wire fence.
The fence snagged my sweater.
The nets snagged on some rocks.
I snagged a ride from Joe.
a snaggle of restrictions
My hair snaggles when I wash it.
a snake coiled up in the grass
Venomous snakes spit and hiss when they are cornered.
The road snaked away into the distance.
The procession snaked its way through narrow streets.
a snake-oil salesman
What are you snaky about?
The wind had snapped the tree in two.
He snapped a twig off a bush.
Suddenly, the rope snapped.
The branch she was standing on must have snapped off.
The lid snapped shut.
His eyes snapped open.
He snapped to attention and saluted.
She snapped the bag shut.
'Don't just stand there,' she snapped.
I was tempted to snap back angrily at him.
He snapped a reply.
The dogs snarled and snapped at our heels.
A passing tourist snapped the incident.
She seemed oblivious to the crowds of photographers snapping away.
My patience finally snapped.
When he said that, something snapped inside her.
And that did it. I snapped.
You've been depressed for weeks. It's time you snapped out of it.
The sergeant snapped out an order.
All the best bargains were snapped up within hours.
(figurative) She's been snapped up by Hollywood to star in two major movies.
She closed her purse with a snap.
the snap of a twig
holiday snaps
It was a snap decision.
They held a snap election.
Snap! I've just bought that CD too!
a snappy slogan
a snappy answer
a snappy outfit
She's a snappy dresser.
a snappy tune
He summarized the speech snappily.
snappily dressed
'What?' she asked snappily.
snapshots of the children
to snare a rabbit
(figurative) Her one thought was to snare a rich husband.
(figurative) He found himself snared in a web of intrigue.
The kids snarfed up all the cookies.
There's plenty to snark about in the article.
a snarky remark
The dog snarled at us.
'Get out of here!' he snarled.
She snarled abuse at anyone who happened to walk past.
The accident snarled up the traffic all day.
The sheets kept getting snarled up.
The dog bared its teeth in a snarl.
a snarl of hate
rush-hour traffic snarls
She used conditioner to remove the snarls from her hair.
She managed to snatch the gun from his hand.
Gordon snatched up his jacket and left the room.
Hey, you kids! Don't all snatch!
The raiders snatched $100 from the cash register.
The baby was snatched from its parents' car.
I managed to snatch an hour's sleep.
The team snatched a dramatic victory in the last minute of the game.
He snatched at the steering wheel but I pushed him away.
We snatched at every moment we could be together.
a snatch of music
I only caught snatches of the conversation.
a bag snatch
to make a snatch at sth
a purse snatcher
a snazzy tie
I sneaked up the stairs.
We sneaked a look at her diary.
If the gate is open, you can sneak a peek at the gardens.
I managed to sneak a note to him.
I managed to sneak him a note.
I sneaked a cake when they were out of the room.
Did you sneak on me to the teacher?
He sneaked up on his sister and shouted 'Boo!'.
a sneak attack
He wore old jeans and a pair of sneakers.
That was a sneaky trick!
She had always had a sneaking affection for him.
I have a sneaking suspicion that she knows more than she's telling us.
He sneered at people who liked pop music.
a sneering comment
'You? A writer?' she sneered.
A faint sneer of satisfaction crossed her face.
I've been sneezing all morning.
coughs and sneezes
She gave a violent sneeze.
snide comments/remarks
We all had colds and couldn't stop sniffing and sneezing.
sniffing the fresh morning air
to sniff glue
The dog sniffed at my shoes.
'It's hardly what I'd call elegant,' she sniffed.
We don't want journalists sniffing around.
Hollywood agents have been sniffing around him.
The dogs are trained to sniff out drugs.
Journalists are good at sniffing out a scandal.
She took a deep sniff of the perfume.
My mother gave a sniff of disapproval.
His sobs soon turned to sniffs.
The sniff of power went to his head.
They make threats but back down at the first sniff of trouble.
She didn't get even a sniff at a medal.
After a while, her sniffles died away.
What are you sniggering at?
Snip a tiny hole in the paper.
She snipped at the loose threads hanging down.
Make a series of small snips along the edge of the fabric.
Snip, snip, went the scissors.
It's a snip at only £25.
Gunmen continued to snipe at people leaving their homes to find food.
Aid workers remain in the area despite continuous sniping.
Have you got any interesting snippets for me?
a snippet of information
Johnnie snitched on me to his mom.
You little snitch! I'll never tell you anything again!
a snivelling little brat
She's such a snob!
an intellectual snob
a food/wine, etc. snob
There is a snob value in driving the latest model.
intellectual snobbery
They were snogging on the sofa.
I caught him snogging my friend.
to play snooker
a game of snooker
a snooker hall/player/table, etc.
Any plans I'd had for the weekend were by now well and truly snookered.
Someone's been snooping around my apartment.
journalists snooping on politicians
He had a snoop around her office.
My brother was snoozing on the sofa.
I often have a snooze after lunch.
I could hear Paul snoring in the next room.
loud snoring
She lay awake listening to his snores.
to go snorkelling
The horse snorted and tossed its head.
to snort with laughter
She snorted in disgust.
'You!' he snorted contemptuously.
to snort cocaine
to give a snort
a snort of disgust
I could hear the snort and stamp of a horse.
to take a snort of cocaine
a snotty nose
snotty kids
the snout of a pistol
Snow was falling heavily.
We had snow in May this year.
The snow was beginning to melt.
Children were playing in the snow.
20 cm of snow were expected today.
The snow didn't settle (= stay on the ground).
Her skin was as white as snow.
the first snows of winter
the snows of Kilimanjaro
It's been snowing heavily all day.
He really snowed me with all his talk of buying a Porsche.
snow-covered fields
snow-white sheets
a snowball fight
All this publicity has had a snowball effect on the sales of their latest album.
to go snowboarding
Snowboarding is now an Olympic sport.
a heavy/light snowfall
an area of low snowfall
What is the average annual snowfall for this state?
snowy fields
a snowy weekend
snowy hair
I tried to be friendly, but she snubbed me completely.
All the country's leading players snubbed the tournament.
Her refusal to attend the dinner is being seen as a deliberate snub to the President.
a snub-nosed child
a snub-nosed revolver (= with a short barrel )
The dogs were snuffing gently at my feet.
An innocent child's life has been snuffed out by this senseless shooting.
I could hear the child snuffling in her sleep.
The silence was broken only by the snuffles of the dogs.
His breath came in snuffles.
a snug little house
I spent the afternoon snug and warm in bed.
The elastic at the waist gives a nice snug fit.
I left the children tucked up snugly in bed.
The lid should fit snugly.
The child snuggled up to her mother.
He snuggled down under the bedclothes.
She snuggled closer.
He snuggled his head onto her shoulder.
Don't look so angry.
There's no need to worry so.
She spoke so quietly (that) I could hardly hear her.
I'm not so stupid as to believe that.
(formal, especially BrE) Would you be so kind as to lock the door when you leave?
I'm so glad to see you.
We have so much to do.
Their attitude is so very English.
The article was just so much (= nothing but) nonsense.
(BrE) He sat there ever so quietly.
(BrE) I do love it so.
I haven't enjoyed myself so much for a long time.
It wasn't so good as last time.
It's not so easy as you'd think.
He was not so quick a learner as his brother.
It's not so much a hobby as a career (= more like a career than a hobby).
(disapproving) Off she went without so much as (= without even) a 'goodbye'.
The fish was about so big (= said when using your hands to show the size).
There are only so many (= only a limited number of) hours in a day.
'Is he coming?' ' I hope so.'
'Did they mind?' 'I don't think so.'
If she notices, she never says so.
I might be away next week. If so, I won't be able to see you.
We are very busy— so much so that we won't be able to take time off this year.
Programs are expensive, and even more so if you have to keep altering them.
I hear that you're a writer— is that so (= is that true)?
He thinks I dislike him but that just isn't so.
George is going to help me, or so he says (= that is what he says).
They asked me to call them and I did so (= I called).
Times have changed and so have I.
'I prefer the first version.' ' So do we.'
'I'm not hungry.' ' Neither am I / I'm not very hungry either.'
'You were there, too.' ' So I was —I'd forgotten.'
'There's another one.' ' So there is.'
He is so not the right person for you.
That is so not cool.
'You're not telling the truth, are you?' 'I am, so!'
Stand with your arms out, so.
(literary) So it was that he finally returned home.
We went early so as to get good seats.
If he doesn't want to be involved, then so be it.
So much for the situation in Germany. Now we turn our attention to France.
So much for that idea!
The programme has been so organized that none of the talks overlap.
It was still painful so I went to see a doctor.
Nothing more was heard from him so that we began to wonder if he was dead.
But I gave you a map so you wouldn't get lost!
She worked hard so that everything would be ready in time.
So after shouting and screaming for an hour she walked out in tears.
So I had a couple of drinks on the way home. What's wrong with that?
'You've been smoking again.' 'So?'
So, let's see. What do we need to take?
So, what have you been doing today?
So, that's it for today.
So there's nothing we can do about it?
'I've just got back from a trip to Rome.' 'So, how was it?'
Just as large companies are having to cut back, so small businesses are being forced to close.
'He's fifteen years younger than you!' 'So what?'
So what if nobody else agrees with me?
She never saw him again—or so the story goes.
Well, you can't have it, so there!
They were all very similar. All cut from the same cloth, so to speak.
What would you say to Mrs So-and-so who has called to complain about a noisy neighbour?
He's an ungrateful so-and-so.
the opinion of a so-called 'expert'
How have these so-called improvements helped the local community?
artists from the so-called 'School of London'
'How are you feeling today?' 'So-so.'
I only did so-so in the exam.
I usually soak the beans overnight.
If you soak the tablecloth before you wash it, the stains should come out.
Leave the apricots to soak for 20 minutes.
I'm going to go and soak in the bath.
A sudden shower of rain soaked the spectators.
He was accused of soaking his clients.
Blood had soaked through the bandage.
Use a cloth to soak up some of the excess water.
We were just sitting soaking up the atmosphere.
Give the shirt a good soak before you wash it.
He woke up soaked with sweat.
They were soaked to the skin.
You'll get soaked if you go out in this rain.
Your clothes are soaked!
a blood-soaked cloth
rain-soaked clothing
That coat is soaking—take it off.
We arrived home soaking wet.
soap and water
a bar/piece of soap
soap bubbles
soaps on TV
She's a US soap star.
soaring costs/prices/temperatures
Unemployment has soared to 18%.
The rocket soared (up) into the air.
(figurative) Her spirits soared (= she became very happy and excited).
an eagle soaring high above the cliffs
soaring mountains
The building soared above us.
soaring strings
I heard a child sobbing loudly.
He started to sob uncontrollably.
'I hate him,' she sobbed.
He sobbed out his troubles.
He gave a deep sob.
Her body was racked (= shaken) with sobs.
I promised him that I'd stay sober tonight.
He was as sober as a judge (= completely sober ).
a sober assessment of the situation
He is honest, sober and hard-working.
On sober reflection (= after some serious thought), I don't think I really need a car after all.
a sober grey suit
The bad news sobered us for a while.
He suddenly sobered.
Stay here with us until you've sobered up.
a sobering effect/experience/thought, etc.
It is sobering to realize that this is not a new problem.
Royal Geographical Soc.
soccer players
a soccer pitch/team/match
She's a sociable child who'll talk to anyone.
I'm not feeling very sociable this evening.
We had a very sociable weekend (= we did a lot of things with other people).
social issues/problems/reforms
a call for social and economic change
social class/background
social advancement (= improving your position in society)
a busy social life
Team sports help to develop a child's social skills (= the ability to talk easily to other people and do things in a group).
Social events and training days are arranged for all the staff.
Join a social club to make new friends.
The reforms will bring benefits, socially and politically.
This type of behaviour is no longer socially acceptable.
a socially disadvantaged family (= one that is poor and from a low social class)
We meet at work, but never socially.
Carnivores are usually socially complex mammals.
We're living on the social now.
social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter
People in the region usually have a broad social network.
a social networking site
to live on social security
social security payments
a leaflet on the range of social services available
the local social services department
I enjoy socializing with the other students.
Maybe you should socialize more.
The family has the important function of socializing children.
a socialist country
socialist beliefs
the ruling Socialist Party
policies that will benefit society as a whole
Racism exists at all levels of society.
They carried out research into the roles of men and women in today's society
modern industrial societies
demand created by a consumer society
Can Britain ever be a classless society?
They were discussing the problems of Western society.
a member of the drama society
the American Society of Newspaper Editors
Their daughter married into high society.
a society wedding
He was a solitary man who avoided the society of others.
socio-economic
sociolinguistics
people from different socio-economic backgrounds
sociological theories
a pair of socks
He gave him a sock on the jaw.
She got angry and socked him in the mouth.
(figurative) The banks are socking customers with higher charges.
Go in there and sock it to 'em!
He accused the politician of being a capitalist sock puppet.
He created sock puppets to write positive comments about his blog posts.
a wall socket
an aerial socket on the television
His eyes bulged in their sockets.
a socking great house
You stupid sod!
The poor old sod got the sack yesterday.
You lucky sod!
It was a real sod of a job.
under the sod (= in your grave)
Sod this car! It's always breaking down.
Oh, sod it! I'm not doing any more.
Sod off, the pair of you!
We always play better when we are not being recorded—but that's Sod's Law, isn't it?
It was Sod's Law—the only day he could manage was the day I couldn't miss work.
a Scotch and soda
He had an ice-cream soda.
baking/washing soda
sodden grass
a rain-sodden jacket
I couldn't understand a sodding thing!
The village had a reputation as a latter-day Sodom and Gomorrah.
soft margarine
soft feather pillows
The grass was soft and springy.
soft rocks such as limestone
soft cheeses
soft skin
This season's fashions focus on warm tones and soft lines.
The moon's pale light cast soft shadows.
a soft pink
the soft glow of candlelight
A soft breeze rustled the trees.
soft background music
a soft voice
Julia's soft heart was touched by his grief.
The government is not becoming soft on crime.
If you're too soft with these kids they'll never respect you.
He must be going soft in the head.
Stay in a hotel? Don't be so soft. I want to camp out under the stars.
They had got too used to the soft life at home.
You won't need much soap—the water here is very soft.
the softness of her skin
the softness of the water
Candidates should demonstrate soft skills, such as team work, enthusiasm and emotional intelligence.
Television has been accused of soft-pedalling bad news.
a soft-shoe shuffle
Fry the onions until they soften.
a lotion to soften the skin
Linseed oil will soften stiff leather.
Trees soften the outline of the house.
She felt herself softening towards him.
His face softened as he looked at his son.
She softened her tone a little.
Airbags are designed to soften the impact of a car crash.
Potential customers are softened up with free gifts before the sales talk.
a water softener
There's no need to be afraid of him—he's a big softie.
She closed the door softly behind her.
'I missed you,' he said softly.
The room was softly lit by a lamp.
a softly tailored suit
The police used a softly-softly approach with him.
application/system software
design/educational/music-sharing, etc. software
to install/run a piece of software
Will the software run on my machine?
We squelched over the soggy ground.
soggy bread
a soi-disant novelist
poor/dry/acid/sandy/fertile, etc. soil
the study of rocks and soils
soil erosion
It was the first time I had set foot on African soil.
soiled linen
(figurative) I don't want you soiling your hands with this sort of work (= doing sth unpleasant or wrong).
He sought solace in the whisky bottle.
She turned to Rob for solace.
His grandchildren were a solace in his old age.
She smiled, as though solaced by the memory.
solar radiation
the solar cycle
solar power/heating
a painful punch in the solar plexus
She enjoys long solitary walks.
He led a solitary life.
He was a solitary child.
Tigers are solitary animals.
a solitary farm
A solitary light burned dimly in the hall.
There was not a solitary shred of evidence (= none at all).
soldiers in uniform
soldiers on duty
the sole surviving member of the family
My sole reason for coming here was to see you.
This is the sole means of access to the building.
She has sole responsibility for the project.
the sole owner
The hot sand burned the soles of their feet.
leather soles
rubber-soled shoes
She was motivated solely by self-interest.
Selection is based solely on merit.
He became solely responsible for the firm.
Her face grew solemn.
a solemn expression
a solemn oath/undertaking/vow, etc.
a solemn ritual
He nodded solemnly.
She solemnly promised not to say a word to anyone about it.
The choir walked solemnly past.
He was smiling, but his eyes retained a look of solemnity.
He was buried with great pomp and solemnity.
to observe the solemnities of the occasion
his first solo flight
a solo effort
a solo artist (= for example a singer who sings on their own, not as part of a group)
a piece for solo violin
She wanted to fly solo across the Atlantic.
After three years with the band he decided to go solo.
a guitar solo
They were planning to solicit funds from a number of organizations.
Historians and critics are solicited for their opinions.
to solicit for money
Volunteers are being solicited to assist with the project.
Prostitutes solicited openly in the streets.
the crime of soliciting
the solicitation of money for election funds
I was touched by his solicitude for the boy.
The planet Jupiter may have no solid surface at all.
The boat bumped against a solid object.
She had refused all solid food.
It was so cold that the stream had frozen solid.
The boiler uses solid fuel.
They were drilling through solid rock.
The stores are packed solid (= very full and crowded) at this time of year.
These chains seem fairly solid.
As yet, they have no solid evidence.
This provided a solid foundation for their marriage.
The Irish team were solid as a rock in defence.
2008 was a year of solid achievement.
He's a solid player.
a solid gold bracelet
The essay represents a solid week's work.
It rained for two hours solid this afternoon.
One cat is black and white, the other solid black.
A cube is a solid figure.
The strike was solid, supported by all the members.
liquids and solids
The baby is not yet on solids (= eating solid food).
a solid-state radio
community solidarity
to express/show solidarity with sb
Demonstrations were held as a gesture of solidarity with the hunger strikers.
The mixture will solidify into toffee.
solidified lava
Vague objections to the system solidified into firm opposition.
They solidified their position as Britain's top band.
the strength and solidity of Romanesque architecture
Her writings have extraordinary depth and solidity.
the solidity of his support for his staff
a large, solidly-built house
He stood solidly in my path.
It rained solidly for three hours.
The state is solidly Republican.
Hamlet's famous soliloquy, 'To be or not to be…'
the playwright's use of soliloquy
to be in solitary confinement
She longed for peace and solitude.
Attempts to find a solution have failed.
There's no simple solution to this problem.
Do you have a better solution?
The solution to last week's quiz is on page 81.
an alkaline solution
saline solution
the solution of glucose in water
In this job you need to exhibit the wisdom of Solomon.
the summer/winter solstice
soluble aspirin
Glucose is soluble in water.
Attempts are being made to solve the problem of waste disposal.
to solve an equation/a puzzle/a riddle
to solve a crime/mystery
These problems are all solvable.
Lead is more solvent in acidic water.
She's a good problem solver.
dressed in sombre shades of grey and black
Paul was in a sombre mood.
The year ended on a sombre note.
Some day he'll be famous.
Somebody should have told me.
She thinks she's really somebody in that car.
We must stop him from seeing her somehow.
Somehow or other I must get a new job.
Somehow, I don't feel I can trust him.
She looked different somehow.
There's someone at the door.
Someone's left their bag behind.
It's time for someone new (= a new person) to take over.
It couldn't have been me—it must have been someone else (= a different person).
Should we call a doctor or someone?
He was a small-time lawyer keen to be someone.
It has to go someplace.
Can't you do that someplace else?
We need to find someplace to live.
to do/turn a somersault
He turned back somersaults.
(figurative) Her heart did a complete somersault when she saw him.
The car hit the kerb and somersaulted into the air.
We stopped for something to eat.
Give me something to do.
There's something wrong with the TV.
There's something about this place that frightens me.
Don't just stand there. Do something!
His name is Alan something (= I don't know his other name).
She's a professor of something or other (= I'm not sure what) at Leeds.
He's something in (= has a job connected with) television.
The car hit a tree or something.
I could just eat a little something.
There's something in (= some truth or some fact or opinion worth considering in) what he says.
It's quite something (= a thing that you should feel happy about) to have a job at all these days.
'We should finish by tomorrow.' ' That's something (= a good thing), anyway.'
She called at something after ten o'clock.
a new comedy aimed at thirty-somethings (= people between thirty and forty years old)
It tastes something like melon.
They pay six pounds an hour. Something like that.
She found herself something of a (= to some degree a) celebrity.
The programme's something to do with (= in some way about) the environment.
He gave her a wry look, something between amusement and regret.
He said something else that I thought was interesting.
I've seen some fine players, but she's something else.
She was swearing something terrible.
I saw him sometime last summer.
We must get together sometime.
Thomas Atkins, sometime vicar of this parish
a sometime contributor to this magazine
Sometimes I go by car.
He sometimes writes to me.
I like to be on my own sometimes.
I was somewhat surprised to see him.
The situation has changed somewhat since we last met.
What happened to them remains somewhat of a mystery.
I've seen him somewhere before.
Can we go somewhere warm?
I've already looked there—it must be somewhere else.
He went to school in York or somewhere (= I'm not sure where).
They live somewhere or other in France.
We need to find somewhere to (= a place to) live.
I know somewhere we can go.
It cost somewhere around two thousand dollars.
He sommer hit me without saying anything.
a somnolent cat
(figurative) a somnolent town
a somnolent Sunday afternoon
We have two sons and a daughter.
They have three grown-up sons.
He's the son of an Oxford professor.
Maine & Sons, Grocers (= the name of a company on a sign)
Well, son, how can I help you?
one of France's most famous sons
the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit
I'll kill that son of a bitch when I get my hands on him!
My car's at the shop—the son of a gun broke down again.
Well, son of a gun—and I thought the old guy couldn't dance!
Frank, you old son of a gun—I haven't seen you for months.
a folk/love/pop, etc. song
We sang a song together.
The story is told through song and dance.
Suddenly he burst into song (= started to sing).
the song of the blackbird
singer-songwriter Paul Simon
sonic waves
Shakespeare's sonnets
a sonorous voice
the rich sonority of the bass
We'll be home soon./We'll soon be home.
She sold the house soon after her husband died.
I soon realized the mistake.
It soon became clear that the programme was a failure.
See you soon!
How soon can you get here?
We'll deliver the goods as soon as we can.
Please send it as soon as possible.
Next Monday is the soonest we can deliver.
They arrived home sooner than expected.
The sooner we set off, the sooner we will arrive.
The note said, 'Call Bill soonest' (= as soon as possible).
All too soon the party was over.
'When shall I tell him?' 'The sooner the better.'
The music soothed her for a while.
This should soothe the pain.
Take a warm bath to soothe tense, tired muscles.
a soothing voice/lotion
'There's no need to worry,' he said soothingly.
the sophisticated pleasures of city life
Mark is a smart and sophisticated young man.
highly sophisticated computer systems
Medical techniques are becoming more sophisticated all the time.
a sophisticated audience
the soporific effect of the sun
soppy love songs
a soprano saxophone
It was a shock to discover the truth about his sordid past.
I didn't want to hear the sordid details of their relationship.
people living in sordid conditions
to have a sore throat
His feet were sore after the walk.
My stomach is still sore (= painful) after the operation.
an ointment to reduce soreness and swelling
open sores
I was sorely tempted to complain, but I didn't.
If you don't come to the reunion you'll be sorely missed.
I'm sorry that your husband lost his job.
We're sorry to hear that your father's in hospital again.
No one is sorrier than I am about what happened.
I'm sorry you're not well. I hope you feel better soon.
I am sorry to hear that.
That's bad luck.
How awful for you.
I'm sorry for your loss (when sb has died).
We're very sorry about the damage to your car.
He says he's really sorry for taking the car without asking.
She was sorry that she'd lost her temper.
If you say you're sorry we'll forgive you.
She was sorry that she'd lost contact with Mary.
You'll be sorry if I catch you!
I was genuinely sorry to be leaving college.
The business is in a sorry state.
They were a sorry sight when they eventually got off the boat.
Sorry I'm late!
Did I stand on your foot? Sorry!
Sorry to bother you, but could I speak to you for a moment?
Sorry, we don't allow dogs in the house.
He didn't even say sorry.
Sorry? Could you repeat the question?
Take the first turning, sorry, the third turning on the right.
He expressed his sorrow at the news of her death.
They said that the decision was made more in sorrow than in anger.
the joys and sorrows of childhood
the sorrowing relatives
her sorrowful eyes
' What sort of music do you like?' 'Oh, all sorts.'
This sort of problem is quite common./ These sorts of problems are quite common.
He's the sort of person who only cares about money.
For dessert there's a fruit pie of some sort (= you are not sure what kind).
Most people went on training courses of one sort or another (= of various types) last year.
(informal) There were snacks—peanuts, olives, that sort of thing.
(informal) There are all sorts of activities (= many different ones) for kids at the campsite.
(informal) What sort of price did you want to pay?(= approximately how much)
(informal) What sort of time do you call this?(= I'm very angry that you have come so late.)
My brother would never cheat on his wife; he's not that sort.
to do a sort
She sort of pretends that she doesn't really care.
'Do you understand?' 'Sort of.'
sorting the mail
The computer sorts the words into alphabetical order.
Rubbish can easily be separated and sorted into plastics, glass and paper.
Women and children sorted the ore from the rock.
I'm really busy—can you sort it?
It will all sort itself out in the end.
The cupboards need sorting out.
If you're going to the bus station, can you sort out the tickets for tomorrow?
Could you sort out the toys that can be thrown away?
If you can wait a moment, I'll sort it all out for you.
You load up the car and I'll sort the kids out.
Wait till I get my hands on him—I'll soon sort him out!
I sorted through my paperwork.
She sorted through her suitcase for something to wear.
Don't worry. We'll soon have this sorted.
It's our problem. We'll get it sorted.
It's all sorted.
It's time you got yourself sorted.
His first sortie into politics was unsuccessful.
to send an SOS
an SOS message
We've received an SOS from the area asking for food parcels.
adventure/detective/love, etc. stories
a story about time travel
Shall I tell you a story?
He read the children a story.
a bedtime story
The police didn't believe her story.
We must stick to our story about the accident.
I can't decide until I've heard both sides of the story.
It's a story of courage.
Many years later I returned to Africa but that's another story (= I am not going to talk about it now).
He told us the story of his life.
the story of the Beatles
the story of the building of the bridge
a front-page story
Now for a summary of tonight's main news stories.
Her novels always have the same basic story.
She knew the child had been telling stories again.
Her face told its own story.
a high/low sound
a clicking/buzzing/scratching, etc. sound
the different sounds and smells of the forest
She heard the sound of footsteps outside.
He crept into the house trying not to make a sound.
Sound travels more slowly than light.
Could you turn the sound up/down?
The sound quality of the tapes was excellent.
I like their sound.
They had a wonderful time by the sound of it.
From the sound of things you were lucky to find him.
They're consulting a lawyer? I don't like the sound of that.
a house within sound of the sea
His voice sounded strange on the phone.
She didn't sound surprised when I told her the news.
His explanation sounds reasonable to me.
Leo made it sound so easy. But it wasn't.
She sounds just the person we need for the job.
You sounded just like your father when you said that.
I hope I don't sound as if/as though I'm criticizing you.
an Italian-sounding name
fine-sounding words
The bell sounded for the end of the class.
(BrE) Passing motorists sounded their horns in support.
When I saw the smoke, I tried to sound the alarm.
(figurative) Scientists have sounded a note of caution on the technique.
Leaving him out of the team may sound the death knell for our chances of winning (= signal the end of our chances).
You don't sound the 'b' in the word 'comb'.
I wanted to sound him out about a job.
They decided to sound out her interest in the project.
a person of sound judgement
He gave me some very sound advice.
This gives the design team a sound basis for their work.
The proposal makes sound commercial sense.
Their policies are environmentally sound.
a sound knowledge/understanding of sth
He has a sound grasp of the issues.
We arrived home safe and sound.
to be of sound mind (= not mentally ill)
The house needs attention but the roof is sound.
to have a sound night's sleep
to be a sound sleeper
a sound piece of writing
a sound tennis player
to give sb a sound beating
soundness of judgement
financial soundness
the soundness of the building's foundations
a cheese soufflé
This design is the most sought after.
a much sought-after actress
He believed his immortal soul was in peril.
The howling wind sounded like the wailing of lost souls (= the spirits of dead people who are not in heaven).
There was a feeling of restlessness deep in her soul.
the dark side of the human soul
It was a very polished performance, but it lacked soul.
He is the soul of discretion.
She's lost all her money, poor soul.
You're a brave soul.
There wasn't a soul in sight (= nobody was in sight).
Don't tell a soul (= do not tell anyone).
(literary) a village of 300 souls (= with 300 people living there)
a soul singer
soulful eyes
a soulful song
They live in soulless concrete blocks.
to break the sound barrier (= to travel faster than the speed of sound)
They will take soundings among party members.
What do your soundings show?
They took soundings along the canal.
Her lips parted in a soundless scream.
a soundly based conclusion
The team was soundly defeated.
These houses are soundly built.
He played soundly.
He was soundly beaten by his mother.
a soundproof room
The soundtrack of 'Casablanca' took weeks to edit.
I've just bought the soundtrack of the latest Miyazaki movie.
chicken soup
(BrE) tinned/packet soups
(NAmE) canned/packaged soups
a soup spoon/plate
a soupy stew
sour apples
a sour flavour
to turn/go sour
a sour and disillusioned woman
a sour face
The meeting ended on a sour note with several people walking out.
'Who asked you?' he said sourly.
The atmosphere at the house soured.
The disagreement over trade tariffs has soured relations between the two countries.
renewable energy sources
Your local library will be a useful source of information.
What is their main source of income?
He refused to name his sources.
Government sources indicated yesterday that cuts may have to be made.
source material
Historians use a wide range of primary and secondary sources for their research.
a source of violence
a source of confusion
the source of the Nile
We source all the meat sold in our stores from British farms.
Which way is south?
warmer weather coming from the south
He lives to the south of (= further south than) the city.
birds flying to the south for the winter
They bought a villa in the South of France.
Houses are less expensive in the North than in the South (= of England).
South Wales
They live on the south coast.
This room faces south.
They live ten miles south of Bristol.
The drug is achieving revenues just south of $1 billion per quarter.
the southern slopes of the mountains
southern Spain
a southern accent
soused herring
southbound traffic
the southbound carriageway of the motorway
travelling in a southerly direction
a warm southerly breeze
the southernmost part of the island
to turn southwards
in a southward direction
I bought the ring as a souvenir of Greece.
a souvenir shop
a sovereign ruler
The country claimed sovereignty over the island.
the sovereignty of Parliament
(figurative) the idea of consumer sovereignty
The declaration proclaimed the full sovereignty of the republic.
Sow the seeds in rows.
Water well after sowing.
The fields around had been sown with wheat.
to sow doubt in sb's mind
to sow confusion
a soya crop
soya flour
Soz, I forgot.
Leamington Spa
a spa town
spa waters
a superb health spa which includes sauna, Turkish bath and fitness rooms
floor/office/shelf, etc. space
We must make good use of the available space.
That desk takes up too much space.
There is very little storage space in the department.
Can we make space for an extra chair?
How much disk space will it take up?(= on a computer)
a large/small/narrow/wide space
a space two metres by three metres
a parking space
crowded together in a confined space
I'll clear a space for your books.
Put it in the space between the table and the wall.
The room has been furnished and decorated to give a feeling of space.
It's a city with fine buildings and plenty of open space.
The venue is a great space for music.
the first woman in space
the possibility of visitors from outer space
a space flight/mission
Forty-four people died in the space of five days.
They had achieved a lot in a short space of time.
Leave a space of two weeks between appointments.
Don't waste space by leaving a wide margin.
There was not enough space to print all the letters we received.
Leave a space after the comma.
She was upset and needed space.
You have to give teenagers plenty of space.
It is quite possible that space and time are finite.
I can't tell you any more right now, but watch this space.
evenly spaced plants
a row of closely spaced dots
Space the posts about a metre apart.
The houses are spaced out in this area of town.
a space-age kitchen
single/double spacing (= with one or two lines left between lines of type)
White walls can give a feeling of spaciousness.
Turn the soil over with a spade.
(BrE) The children took their buckets and spades to the beach.
the five/queen/ace of spades
You must play a spade if you have one.
The criminal gang were spamming phishing emails.
Some idiot has been spamming my blog with comments.
I worked with him over a span of six years.
The project must be completed within a specific time span.
Small children have a short attention span.
Managers have a wide span of control.
These forests cover a broad span of latitudes.
The bridge crosses the river in a single span.
The kite has a span of 1.5 metres.
His acting career spanned 55 years.
Family photos spanning five generations were stolen.
The operation, which spanned nine countries, resulted in 200 arrests.
a series of bridges spanning the river
Their house is always spick and span.
What is this? The Spanish Inquisition?
to give sb a spanking
I don't agree with spanking.
The horse set off at a spanking pace.
We've got a spare bedroom, if you'd like to stay.
I'm afraid I haven't got any spare cash.
Are there any tickets going spare (= are there any available, not being used by sb else)?
a spare key/tyre
Take some spare clothes in case you get wet.
He's studying music in his spare time.
I haven't had a spare moment this morning.
I'd love to have a break, but I can't spare the time just now.
Could you spare one of your staff to help us out?
We can only spare one room for you.
You should spare a thought for (= think about) the person who cleans up after you.
Surely you can spare me a few minutes?
He wanted to spare his mother any anxiety.
Please spare me (= do not tell me) the gruesome details.
You could have spared yourself an unnecessary trip by phoning in advance.
She was spared from the ordeal of appearing in court.
They killed the men but spared the children.
During the bombing only one house was spared (= was not hit by a bomb).
Hong Kong was spared a direct hit, but the storm still brought heavy rains and powerful winds.
He spared no effort to make her happy again.
No expense was spared in furnishing the new office.
I've got absolutely no money to spare this month.
We arrived at the airport with five minutes to spare.
to get the spare out of the boot/trunk
I've lost my key and I haven't got a spare.
It can be difficult to get spares for some older makes of car.
barbecued spare ribs
Doctors now advise only sparing use of such creams.
He was always sparing with his praise.
Use the cream very sparingly.
A shower of sparks flew up the chimney.
sparks from a faulty light switch
A spark ignites the fuel in a car engine.
a spark of hope
As a writer he seemed to lack creative spark.
the sparks of revolution
Sparks flew at the meeting (= there was a lot of argument).
The proposal would spark a storm of protest around the country.
Winds brought down power lines, sparking a fire.
The riots were sparked off by the arrest of a local leader.
a sparking, crackling fire
(figurative) The game suddenly sparked to life.
I tried to spark up a conversation with her.
sparkling eyes
Her jewellery sparkled in the candlelight.
He always sparkles at parties.
the sparkle of glass
(figurative) There was a sparkle of excitement in her eyes.
The performance lacked sparkle.
the calm and sparkling waters of the lake
sparkling blue eyes
a sparkling wine
sparkling mineral water
a sparkling conversation/personality
The champion was in sparkling form.
a sparky personality
the sparse population of the islands
Vegetation becomes sparse higher up the mountains.
The information available on the subject is sparse.
a sparsely populated area
a muscle spasm
The injection sent his leg into spasm.
a spasm of anxiety/anger/coughing/pain, etc.
There was spasmodic fighting in the area yesterday.
spasmodic movements
spastic children
spastic reactions
The bombing was the latest in a spate of terrorist attacks.
changes taking place in the spatial distribution of the population
the development of a child's spatial awareness (= the ability to judge the positions and sizes of objects)
blood-spattered walls
As the bus passed, it spattered us with mud.
Oil was spattered on the floor.
We heard the rain spattering on the roof.
a spatter of rain against the window
a spattering of blood
(figurative) a spatter of applause
The band's album spawned a string of hit singles.
Have you had your cat spayed?
to give/make/deliver a speech on human rights
He made the announcement in a speech on television.
I seemed to have lost the power of speech.
a speech defect
freedom of speech (= the right to say openly what you think)
Her speech was slurred—she was clearly drunk.
This expression is used mainly in speech, not in writing.
speech sounds
She has the longest speech in the play.
The President refused to speak to the waiting journalists.
'Can I speak to Susan?' 'Speaking.' (= at the beginning of a telephone conversation)
'Do you know him?' 'Not to speak to.' (= only by sight)
I saw her in the street but we didn't speak.
(especially NAmE) Can I speak with you for a minute?
He can't speak because of a throat infection.
Please speak more slowly.
Without speaking, she stood up and went out.
He speaks with a strange accent.
She has a beautiful speaking voice.
She still speaks about him with great affection.
Speaking of travelling, (= referring back to a subject just mentioned) are you going anywhere exciting this year?
to speak several languages
to speak a little Urdu
Do you speak English?
What language is it they're speaking?
Would you prefer it if we spoke in German?
French-speaking Canada
non-English-speaking students
to speak in public
to speak on the radio
to speak at a conference
Professor Wilson was invited to speak about the results of his research.
She spoke in favour of the new tax.
He has a number of speaking engagements this week.
She was clearly speaking the truth.
He spoke the final words of the play.
Her success speaks for itself.
I'm quite capable of speaking for myself, thank you!
'We didn't play very well.' 'Speak for yourself!' (= I think that I played well.)
Speaking as a parent, I'm very concerned about standards in education.
Strictly speaking, the book is not a novel, but a short story.
Everything here speaks of perfect good taste.
The story spoke to him directly.
It's a design that speaks to the senses.
The show wants to speak to real issues affecting young people.
The number of cleaning firms speaks to the fact that cleaning is considered an important service.
Please speak up—we can't hear you at the back.
He was a guest speaker at the conference.
She was a brilliant public speaker.
Chinese speakers
a native speaker of English
the Speaker of the House of Commons/Representatives
They were standing in the river spearing fish.
She speared an olive with her fork.
He is spearheading a campaign for a new stadium in the town.
spearmint chewing gum
We want the machine manufactured to our own spec.
The camera is well specced at the price.
The school will only allow this in special circumstances.
Some of the officials have special privileges.
There is something special about this place.
What are your special interests?
She's a very special friend.
Our special guest on next week's show will be…
Don't lose it—it's special.
a special event
These teachers need special training.
She has a special way of smiling.
He sent a special message to the men.
As an only child she got special attention.
Please take special care of it.
an election-night special on television
The menu changes regularly and there are daily specials to choose from.
There's a special on coffee this week.
She teaches children with special needs.
Shop around for special offers.
a special offer on perfume
French wine is on special offer this week.
Many students prefer not to specialize too soon.
He specialized in criminal law.
The shop specializes in hand-made chocolates.
a business degree with a specialism in computing
Dr Crane's specialism is tropical diseases.
a specialist in Japanese history
a cancer specialist
specialist magazines
You need some specialist advice.
Seafood is a speciality on the island.
local specialities
My speciality is international tax law.
specialized equipment
specialized skills
The ring was specially made for her.
a specially designed diet plan
We came specially to see you.
It will be hard to work today—specially when it's so warm and sunny outside.
I hate homework. Specially history.
regional specialties
specialty stores
Her specialty is taxation law.
Doctors training for General Practice must complete programmes in a number of specialties, including Paediatrics.
a rare species of beetle
There are many species of dog(s).
a conservation area for endangered species
I gave you specific instructions.
'I'd like your help tomorrow.' 'Can you be more specific (= tell me exactly what you want)?'
children's television programmes aimed at a specific age group
The money was collected for a specific purpose.
children with specific learning difficulties (= in one area only)
a belief that is specific to this part of Africa
I specifically told you not to go near the water!
liquid vitamins specifically designed for children
a magazine aimed specifically at working women
The newspaper, or more specifically, the editor, was taken to court for publishing the photographs.
the technical specifications of the new model (= of car)
The house has been built exactly to our specifications.
The office was furnished to a high specification.
Okay, that's the broad plan—let's get down to the specifics.
Remember to specify your size when ordering clothes.
The contract clearly specifies who can operate the machinery.
The regulations specify that calculators may not be used in the examination.
Astronauts have brought back specimens of rock from the moon.
The aquarium has some interesting specimens of unusual tropical fish.
(humorous) They were fine specimens of British youth!
to provide/take a specimen
a specious argument
The ship was now just a speck in the distance.
specks of dust
I need a new pair of specs.
a pair of spectacles
a spectacle case (= to put your glasses in)
The carnival parade was a magnificent spectacle.
The sunset was a stunning spectacle.
I remember the sad spectacle of her standing in her wedding dress, covered in mud.
spectacular scenery
Messi scored a spectacular goal.
It was a spectacular achievement on their part.
It has been a spectacularly successful year.
a Christmas TV spectacular
spectral bands
The country is haunted by the spectre of civil war.
These weeks of drought have once again raised the spectre of widespread famine.
Was he a spectre returning to haunt her?
spectroscopic analysis
A spectrum is formed by a ray of light passing through a prism.
Red and violet are at opposite ends of the spectrum.
the electromagnetic/radio/sound spectrum
a broad spectrum of interests
We shall hear views from across the political spectrum.
We all speculated about the reasons for her resignation.
It is useless to speculate why he did it.
We can speculate that the stone circles were used in some sort of pagan ceremony.
He likes to speculate on the stock market.
There was widespread speculation that she was going to resign.
His private life is the subject of much speculation.
Today's announcement ends months of speculation about the company's future.
She dismissed the newspaper reports as pure speculation.
Our speculations proved right.
She cast a speculative look at Kate.
property speculators
the Kodava speech community in India
speech communities such as high school students or hip hop fans
Laura was speechless with rage.
He reduced speed and turned sharp left.
The train began to pick up speed (= go faster).
The car was gathering speed.
a speed of 50 mph/80 kph
at high/low/full/top speed
at breakneck speed (= fast in a way that is dangerous)
travelling at the speed of light/sound
the processing speed of the computer
This course is designed so that students can progress at their own speed.
We aim to increase the speed of delivery (= how quickly goods are sent).
The accident was due to excessive speed.
She was overtaken by the speed of events (= things happened more quickly than she expected).
(formal) A car flashed past them at speed (= fast).
shutter speeds
a four-speed gearbox
a ten-speed mountain bike
the cost of bringing the chosen schools up to speed
Are you up to speed yet on the latest developments?
He sped away on his bike.
The cab speeded them into the centre of the city.
The drugs will speed her recovery.
The police caught him speeding.
The train soon speeded up.
Can you try and speed things up a bit?
You should always keep to the speed limit.
to break/exceed the speed limit
The road has a 30 mph speed limit.
We wish you a speedy recovery (= from an illness or injury).
a speedy reply
speedy computers
All enquiries will be dealt with as speedily as possible.
a pair of Speedos
How do you spell your surname?
I thought her name was Catherine, but it's Kathryn spelt with a 'K'.
I've never been able to spell.
You've spelt my name wrong.
C—A—T spells 'cat'.
The crop failure spelt disaster for many farmers.
Carter will be here in an hour to spell you.
You know what I mean—I'm sure I don't need to spell it out.
Let me spell out why we need more money.
Could you spell that name out again?
a spell of warm weather
a cold/hot/wet/bright, etc. spell
There will be rain at first, with sunny spells later.
She went to the doctor complaining of dizzy spells.
She had a spell as a singer before becoming an actress.
I spent a brief spell on the 'Washington Post'.
a magic spell
a book of spells
The wizard recited a spell.
to cast/put a spell on sb
to be under a spell (= affected by magic)
I completely fell under her spell.
a spellbinding performance
a storyteller who can hold audiences spellbound
a spelling mistake
the differences between British and American spelling
My spelling is terrible.
a list of difficult spellings
I've spent all my money already.
She spent £100 on a new dress.
The company has spent thousands of pounds updating their computer systems.
I just can't seem to stop spending.
We spent the weekend in Paris.
How do you spend your spare time?
How long did you spend on your homework?
I spend too much time watching television.
Most of her life was spent in caring for others.
She spends too much effort on things that don't matter.
The storm had finally spent itself.
spent matches
After the gruelling test, he felt totally spent.
a big spender (= who spends a lot of money)
It's a really fun restaurant but a bit spendy.
He's spendy—he buys luxury cars new.
to increase public spending
spendthrift governments
He has a low sperm count (= very few live male cells).
Flames spewed from the aircraft's engine.
Massive chimneys were spewing out smoke.
He spewed up on the pavement.
She spewed up the entire meal.
the political sphere
This area was formerly within the sphere of influence of the US.
He and I moved in totally different social spheres.
ionosphere
atmosphere
the anal sphincter
common spices such as ginger and cinnamon
a spice jar
We need an exciting trip to add some spice to our lives.
He exaggerated the details to spice up the story.
(figurative) to be caught in a spider's web of confusion
spidery fingers
spidery writing (= consisting of thin lines that are not very clear)
a row of iron spikes on a wall
Her hair stood up in spikes.
a pair of spikes
a spike in oil prices
He gave her a drink spiked with tranquillizers.
(figurative) Her words were spiked with malice.
The article was spiked for fear of legal action against the newspaper.
The US dollar spiked to a three-month high.
spiked running shoes
short spiked hair
spiky plants, such as cacti
Water had spilled out of the bucket onto the floor.
He startled her and made her spill her drink.
Thousands of gallons of crude oil were spilled into the ocean.
The doors opened and people spilled into the street.
(figurative) Light spilled from the windows.
Has she been spilling out her troubles to you again?
When he started to speak, the words just spilled out.
She filled the glass so full that the water spilled over.
(figurative) Her emotions suddenly spilled over.
Unrest has spilt over into areas outside the city.
Many seabirds died as a result of the oil spill.
I wiped up the coffee spills on the table.
to take a spill
Put the bottle in a plastic bag in case of spillage.
A second room was needed for the spillover of staff and reporters.
The plane was spinning out of control.
a spinning ice skater
My head is spinning (= I feel as if my head is going around and I can't balance).
The dancers spun round and round.
to spin a ball/coin/wheel
He spun around to face her.
She sat by the window spinning.
to spin and knit wool
spinning silk into thread
spinning thread from silk
a spider spinning a web
They went spinning along the roads on their bikes.
An aide was already spinning the senator's defeat as 'almost as good as an outright win'.
products spinning off from favourite books
The transportation operation will be spun off into a separate company.
the earth's spin
the spin of a wheel
Give the washing a short spin.
Let's go for a spin.
She puts a lot of spin on the ball.
a spin bowler (= in cricket, a bowler who uses spin)
Politicians put their own spin on the economic situation.
commercial spin-offs from medical research
The TV comedy series is a spin-off of the original movie.
spin-off merchandise from the latest Disney movie
spinal injuries
spindly legs
Porcupines use their spines to protect themselves.
For most women, marriage used to bring a higher status than spinsterhood.
The birds circled in a slow spiral above the house.
the destructive spiral of violence in the inner cities
measures to control the inflationary spiral
the upward/downward spiral of sales
A snail's shell is spiral in form.
The plane spiralled down to the ground.
the spiralling cost of health care
Prices are spiralling out of control.
the power of the human spirit to overcome difficulties
to be in high/low spirits
You must try and keep your spirits up (= stay cheerful).
My spirits sank at the prospect of starting all over again.
a brave spirit
kindred spirits (= people who like the same things as you)
Show a little fighting spirit.
Although the team lost, they played with tremendous spirit.
They took away his freedom and broke his spirit.
There's not much community spirit around here.
We approached the situation in the wrong spirit.
'OK, I'll try.' ' That's the spirit (= the right attitude).'
The party went well because everyone entered into the spirit of things.
The exhibition captures the spirit of the age/times.
Obey the spirit, not the letter (= the narrow meaning of the words) of the law.
He is dead, but his spirit lives on.
It was believed that people could be possessed by evil spirits.
I don't drink whisky or brandy or any other spirits.
After the concert, the band was spirited away before their fans could get near them.
a spirited young woman
a spirited discussion
She put up a spirited defence in the final game.
a spiritual experience
spiritual development
a lack of spiritual values in the modern world
We're concerned about your spiritual welfare.
a spiritual leader
a spiritually uplifting book
She tends to have intense, spiritualized friendships.
She took a mouthful of food and then suddenly spat it out.
He was spitting blood from a badly cut lip.
He coughed and spat.
The prisoners were spat on by their guards.
She spat in his face and went out.
'You liar!' she spat.
He was dragged out of the court, spitting abuse at the judge and jury.
Snakes spit and hiss when they are cornered.
sausages spitting in the frying pan
The logs on the fire crackled and spat.
If you've got something to say, spit it out!
'I don't need you,' she said spitefully.
Water splashed onto the floor.
Rain splashed against the windows.
He splashed cold water on his face.
He splashed his face with cold water.
My clothes were splashed with mud.
Stop splashing me!
The kids were splashing through the puddles.
People were having fun in the pool, swimming or just splashing around.
The walls were splashed with patches of blue and purple.
We're going to splash out and buy a new car.
He splashed out hundreds of pounds on designer clothes.
We heard the splash when she fell into the pool.
splashes of water on the floor
dark splashes of mud on her skirt
These flowers will give a splash of colour throughout the summer.
coffee with just a splash of milk
The tomato hit the wall with a splat.
The omelette fell splat onto the floor.
Heavy rain splattered on the roof.
The walls were splattered with blood.
Coffee had splattered across the front of his shirt.
She lay on the bed, her arms and legs splayed out.
His long fingers splayed across her back.
a ruptured spleen
He vented his spleen (= shouted in an angry way) on the assembled crowd.
splendid scenery
The hotel stands in splendid isolation, surrounded by moorland.
What a splendid idea!
We've all had a splendid time.
You all played splendidly.
You're both coming? Splendid!
a view of Rheims Cathedral, in all its splendour
The palace has been restored to its former splendour.
the splendours of Rome (= its fine buildings, etc.)
The mirror cracked but did not splinter.
The impact splintered the wood.
The party began to splinter.
Several firms have splintered off from the original company.
a debate that has split the country down the middle
The committee split over government subsidies.
She split the class into groups of four.
The results split neatly into two groups.
She split the money she won with her brother.
His time is split between the London and Paris offices.
Her dress had split along the seam.
The cushion split open and sent feathers everywhere.
Don't tell me you've split another pair of pants!
She split her head open on the cupboard door.
How did you split your lip?
The singer split with his wife last June.
She intends to split from the band at the end of the tour.
Let's split!
A rebel faction has split away from the main group.
The storm split a branch off from the main trunk.
Don't worry—he won't split on us.
My parents split up last year.
She's split up with her boyfriend.
My friend is doing her best to split us up.
We were split up into groups to discuss the question.
Let's split up now and meet again at lunchtime.
The day was split up into 6 one-hour sessions.
a damaging split within the party leadership
the years following his bitter split with his wife
There have been reports of a split between the Prime Minister and the Cabinet.
He demanded a 50–50 split in the profits.
There's a big split in the tent.
a banana split
a gymnast doing the splits
a movie with several split-screen sequences
Their eyes met for a split second.
I work split shifts in a busy restaurant.
a split-ticket vote
She had to make a split-second decision.
The success of the raid depended on split-second timing.
Within three months of the honeymoon, it was splitsville for Ron and Mimi.
Children were sploshing about in the pool.
'But, but…you can't!' she spluttered.
Her father spluttered with indignation.
The firework spluttered and went out.
She fled from the blaze, coughing and spluttering.
The car started with a loud splutter.
Our camping trip was spoilt by bad weather.
Don't let him spoil your evening.
The tall buildings have spoiled the view.
Don't eat too many nuts—you'll spoil your appetite (= will no longer be hungry at the proper time to eat).
(BrE) spoiled ballot papers (= not valid because not correctly marked)
She spoils those kids of hers.
Why not spoil yourself with a weekend in a top hotel?
He really spoiled me on my birthday.
the spoils of high office
Don't be such a spoilsport!
a spoiled brat
He's spoilt rotten (= a lot).
spoken English
spoken commands
a quietly spoken man
I'm afraid you can't sit there—those seats are spoken for.
(old-fashioned) Liza is already spoken for (= she is already married or has a partner).
a police spokesman
A spokeswoman for the government denied the rumours.
(figurative) His mind was like a sponge, ready to absorb anything.
a chocolate sponge
She sponged his hot face.
Take your jacket off and I'll sponge it down with water.
We tried to sponge the blood off my shirt.
He spent his life sponging off his relatives.
spongy moss
The ground was soft and spongy.
The bread had a spongy texture.
The race organizers are trying to attract sponsors.
I'm collecting sponsors for next week's charity run.
the sponsor of the new immigration bill
sports events sponsored by the tobacco industry
The US is sponsoring negotiations between the two sides.
Will you sponsor me for a charity walk I'm doing?
a sponsored swim
She found a company to sponsor her through college.
The bill was sponsored by a Labour MP.
a $50 million sponsorship deal
The project needs to raise £8 million in sponsorship.
We need to find sponsorships for the expedition.
the senator's sponsorship of the job training legislation
a spontaneous offer of help
The audience burst into spontaneous applause.
spontaneous remission of the disease
a tape recording of spontaneous speech
a wonderfully spontaneous performance of the piece
We spontaneously started to dance.
The bleeding often stops spontaneously.
It's a spoof on horror movies.
It is a movie that spoofs other movies.
Someone has been spoofing my address.
a castle haunted by spooks
a CIA spook
We were spooked by the strange noises and lights.
The horse spooked at the siren.
a spooky old house
I was just thinking about her when she phoned. Spooky!
a spool of thread
a soup spoon
a wooden spoon
She spooned the sauce over the chicken pieces.
The students here do not expect to be spoon-fed.
They had information spoon-fed to them.
two spoonfuls of sugar
sporadic fighting/gunfire/violence, etc.
sporadic outbreaks of the disease
She attended lectures only sporadically.
Fighting continued sporadically for two months.
Ferns, mosses and fungi spread by means of spores.
There are excellent facilities for sport and recreation.
I'm not interested in sport.
the use of drugs in sport
What's your favourite sport?
team/water sports
a sports club
Good on you, sport!
The comments were only made in sport.
to make sport of (= to joke about) sb/sth
to sport a beard
She was sporting a T-shirt with the company's logo on it.
I'm not very sporty.
a sporty cotton top
a sporty Mercedes
a major sporting event
a range of sporting activities
His main sporting interests are golf and tennis.
(NAmE) a store selling sporting goods
He sportingly agreed to play the point again.
a keen sportswoman
He is one of this country's top professional sportsmen.
a sportsmanlike attitude
Which has spots, the leopard or the tiger?
The male bird has a red spot on its beak.
(BrE) She was wearing a black skirt with white spots.
His jacket was covered with spots of mud.
The baby's whole body was covered in small red spots.
(BrE) teenagers worried about their spots
a quiet/secluded/lonely, etc. spot
He showed me the exact spot where he had asked her to marry him.
She stood rooted to the spot with fear (= unable to move).
a tourist spot
He's in a spot of trouble.
I felt a few spots of rain.
a guest/solo spot
two teams battling for top spot
I finally spotted my friend in the crowd.
Can you spot the difference between these two pictures?
Neighbours spotted smoke coming out of the house.
No one spotted that the gun was a fake.
I soon spotted what the mistake was.
We spotted the opposing team two goals.
spot prices
to carry out random spot checks on vehicles
His assessment of the situation was spot on.
a black and white spotted dress
a leopard's spotted coat
a spotless white shirt
She keeps the house spotless.
(figurative) He has a spotless record so far.
spotlessly clean
The room was lit by spotlights.
She stood alone on stage in the spotlight.
Unemployment is once again in the spotlight.
The issue will come under the spotlight when parliament reassembles.
The report has turned the spotlight on the startling rise in street crime.
a spotlit stage
The programme spotlights financial problems in the health service.
a talent spotter (= sb who visits clubs and theatres looking for new performers)
a spotty adolescent
a spotty face
a spotty dress
spousal consent
spousal abuse
the spout of a teapot
The wound was still spouting blood.
Clear water spouted from the fountains.
He's always spouting off about being a vegetarian.
What are you spouting on about now?
He could spout poetry for hours.
She could do nothing but spout insults.
I stumbled and sprained my ankle.
a bad ankle sprain
He was sprawling in an armchair in front of the TV.
Something hit her and sent her sprawling to the ground.
I tripped and went sprawling.
The town sprawled along the side of the lake.
attempts to control the fast-growing urban sprawl
He was lying sprawled in an armchair, watching TV.
a modern sprawling town
sea spray
A cloud of fine spray came up from the waterfall.
(figurative) a spray of machine-gun bullets
a can of insect spray (= used to kill insects)
body spray
a throat spray
I gave the plants a quick spray.
a spray of orchids
Spray the conditioner onto your wet hair.
Champagne sprayed everywhere.
The crops are regularly sprayed with pesticide.
She's had the car sprayed blue.
The gunman sprayed the building with bullets.
Pieces of glass sprayed all over the room.
to get a spray tan
a spray-on water repellent for shoes
a paint/crop sprayer
to spread a cloth on a table
Sue spread the map out on the floor.
The bird spread its wings.
Papers had been spread out on the desk.
Pinch and spread the text on screen to see a close-up.
She spread her arms and the child ran towards her.
The disease spreads easily.
Within weeks, his confidence had spread throughout the team.
Use of computers spread rapidly during that period.
to spread rumours/lies about sb
The disease is spread by mosquitoes.
The fire rapidly spread to adjoining buildings.
Water began to spread across the floor.
A smile spread slowly across her face.
Using too much water could spread the stain.
Seeds and pollen are spread by the wind.
We have 10 000 members spread all over the country.
The valley spread out beneath us.
to spread butter on pieces of toast
pieces of toast spread with butter
If the paint is too thick, it will not spread evenly.
Why not pay monthly and spread the cost of your car insurance?
A series of five interviews will be spread over two days.
We attempted to spread the workload between the departments.
There's more room to spread out in first class.
Do you have to spread yourself out all over the sofa?
The searchers spread out to cover the area faster.
to prevent the spread of disease
to encourage the spread of information
the spread of a city into the surrounding areas
a broad spread of opinions
Use a low-fat spread instead of butter.
cheese spread
The company has a good geographical spread of hotels in this country.
The bird's wings have a spread of nearly a metre.
The story continued with a double-page spread on the inside pages.
They had laid on a huge spread for the party.
a vast spread of water
They have a huge spread in California (= a large farm or ranch ).
a muck spreader
a shopping/spending spree
He's out on a spree.
to go on a killing spree
a sprig of parsley/holly/heather
a sprightly 80-year-old
flowers that bloom in spring/in the spring
He was born in the spring of 1944.
There's a feeling of spring in the air today.
spring flowers
bed springs
The mattress has lost its spring.
a mountain spring
spring water
She walked along with a spring in her step.
With a spring, the cat leapt on to the table.
He turned off the alarm and sprang out of bed.
Everyone sprang to their feet (= stood up suddenly) when the principal walked in.
The cat crouched ready to spring.
(figurative) to spring to sb's defence/assistance (= to quickly defend or help sb)
The branch sprang back and hit him in the face.
She turned the key and the lid sprang open.
She sprang a surprise by winning the tournament.
I'm sorry to spring it on you, but I've been offered another job.
Tears sprang to her eyes.
Plans to spring the hostages have failed.
I'll spring for the drinks tonight.
The idea for the novel sprang from a trip to India.
Where on earth did you spring from?
Fran decided to spring-clean the apartment.
The place needed a good spring clean before we could move in.
The document provided a springboard for a lot of useful discussion.
The company expects that this strategic move would allow it to springboard into the US market.
We walked across the springy grass.
She's 73, but hasn't lost that youthful, springy step.
a visit to Holland in springtime/in the springtime
Sprinkle chocolate on top of the cake.
She sprinkled sugar over the strawberries.
She sprinkled the strawberries with sugar.
His poems are sprinkled with quotations from ancient Greek.
It's only sprinkling. We can still go out.
Add a sprinkle of cheese and serve.
We've only had a few sprinkles (of rain) recently.
Add a sprinkling of pepper.
Most were men, but there was also a sprinkling of young women.
He sprinted for the line.
Three runners sprinted past.
She jumped out of the car and sprinted for the front door.
I sprinted the last few metres.
a 100-metre sprint
the world sprint champion
a sprint for the line
a sprint for the bus
She won in a sprint finish.
Lightly spritz your hair with water.
a white wine spritzer
new leaves sprouting from the trees
The seeds will sprout in a few days.
Hundreds of mushrooms had sprouted up overnight.
The town has sprouted shopping malls, discos and nightclubs in recent years.
Tim has sprouted a beard since we last saw him.
Hair sprouted from his chest.
She spruced up for the interview.
The city is sprucing up its museums and galleries.
a sprung mattress
She is bright, tough and spunky.
a top babe with a spunky boyfriend
His speech was a powerful spur to action.
Her difficult childhood spurred her on to succeed.
I was spurred into action by the letter.
The band has been spurred on by the success of their last single.
The agreement is essential to spurring economic growth around the world.
He had managed to create the entirely spurious impression that the company was thriving.
a spurious argument
Eve spurned Mark's invitation.
a spurned lover
Blood was spurting from her nose.
Red and yellow flames spurted out of the fire.
Her nose was spurting blood.
The volcano spurted clouds of steam and ash high into the air.
She spurted past me to get to the line first.
a great spurt of blood
You'd better put on a spurt (= hurry up) if you want to finish that work today.
Babies get very hungry during growth spurts.
a sudden spurt of anger
blood in the sputum
sputtering fireworks
'W-What?' sputtered Anna.
He was denounced as a foreign spy.
a police spy
a spy plane/satellite (= used to watch the activities of the enemy)
Video spy cameras are being used in public places.
He spied for his government for more than ten years.
In the distance we spied the Pacific for the first time.
Have you been spying on me?
Hackers can install spyware to get all your passwords.
10 sq cm
6 Hanover Sq.
the drugs/fraud, etc. squad
the Olympic/national squad
They still have not named their squad for the World Cup qualifier.
My sisters were squabbling over what to watch on TV.
family squabbles
There were endless squabbles over who should sit where.
a bomber/fighter squadron
squalid housing
squalid, overcrowded refugee camps
It was a squalid affair involving prostitutes and drugs.
squalling kids
squally showers
the poverty and squalor of the slums
He had lost his job and was living in squalor.
He squandered all his money on gambling.
a square room
The book had rounded, not square, corners.
square shoulders
He had a firm, square jaw.
a carpet four metres square
an area of 36 square metres
a man of square build
tables arranged square with the wall
Here's the £10 I owe you—now we're square.
The teams were all square at half-time.
a square deal
Are you being square with me?
That isn't quite square with what you said yesterday.
First break the chocolate into squares.
The floor was tiled in squares of grey and white marble.
The hotel is just off the main square.
the market/town/village square
They live at 95 Russell Square.
The square of 7 is 49.
It was like trying to square a circle. That is, it was impossible.
The boat is rounded at the front but squared off at the back.
Three squared is written 32.
Four squared equals 16.
Bruno squared himself to face the waiting journalists.
His goal squared the game 1–1.
They must have squared the mayor before they got their plan underway.
Can I leave you to square up with the waiter?
The interests of farmers need to be squared with those of consumers.
How can you square this with your conscience?
Your theory does not square with the facts.
I think I'll be able to come, but I'll square it with my parents first.
I looked her square in the face.
The square root of 64 (√64) is 8 (8 × 8 = 64).
squared paper
She looked at me squarely in the eye.
He stood squarely in front of them, blocking the entrance.
(figurative) We must meet the challenge squarely (= not try to avoid it).
The responsibility for the crisis rests squarely on the government.
The tomatoes at the bottom of the bag had been squashed.
He squashed his nose against the window.
Squash your cans flat before recycling.
We all squashed into the back of the car.
How many people are they going to try and squash into this bus?
She was squashed between the door and the table.
to squash a plan/an idea/a revolt
If parents don't answer children's questions, their natural curiosity will be squashed.
The statement was an attempt to squash the rumours.
We squashed up to make room for Sue.
I was squashed up against the wall.
a squash court
to play squash
a glass of orange/lemon squash
Two orange squashes, please.
It's a real squash with six of us in the car.
They ended up squatting in the empty houses on Oxford Road.
to live in a squat
a squat tower
a squat muscular man with a shaven head
The parrot squawked and flew away.
'You did what?!' she squawked.
The bird gave a startled squawk.
a squawk of protest
My new shoes squeak.
The mouse ran away, squeaking with fear.
One wheel makes a horrible squeaking noise.
'Let go of me!' he squeaked nervously.
We squeaked into the final with a goal in the last minute.
squeaky floorboards
a high squeaky voice
squeaky clean hair
The pigs were squealing.
The car squealed to a halt.
Children were running around squealing with excitement.
'Don't!' she squealed.
a squeal of pain
a squeal of delight
He stopped with a squeal of brakes.
This movie is not for the squeamish.
to squeeze a tube of toothpaste
to squeeze the trigger of a gun (= to fire it)
He squeezed her hand and smiled at her.
Just take hold of the tube and squeeze.
to squeeze the juice from a lemon
(figurative) She felt as if every drop of emotion had been squeezed from her.
He took off his wet clothes and squeezed the water out.
freshly squeezed orange juice
Soak the cloth in warm water and then squeeze it dry.
We managed to squeeze six people into the car.
(figurative) We managed to squeeze a lot into a week (= we did a lot of different things).
to squeeze into a tight dress/a parking space
to squeeze through a gap in the hedge
If you move forward a little, I can squeeze past.
He's squeezing me for £500.
High interest rates have squeezed the industry hard.
If you come this afternoon the doctor will try to squeeze you in.
Supermarkets are squeezing out small shops.
to squeeze a confession from a suspect
There'll be enough room if we all squeeze up a little.
I sat squeezed up against the wall.
He gave my hand a little squeeze.
Give the tube another squeeze.
a squeeze of lemon juice
It was a tight squeeze but we finally got everything into the case.
Seven people in the car was a bit of a squeeze.
a squeeze on profits
We're really feeling the squeeze since I lost my job.
a credit squeeze
Who's his main squeeze?
The mud squelched as I walked through it.
Her wet shoes squelched at every step.
We squelched across the muddy field.
to squelch a rumour/strike/fire
He pulled his foot out of the mud with a squelch.
squelchy ground
Are these dots and squiggles supposed to be your signature?
a squillion-dollar budget
to squint into the sun
She was squinting through the keyhole.
He squinted at the letter in his hand.
When he squinted his eyes, he could just make out a house in the distance.
His left eye squints a little.
He was born with a squint.
Have a squint at this.
What can I get you, Squire?
The children were squirming restlessly in their seats.
Someone grabbed him but he managed to squirm free.
It made him squirm to think how badly he'd messed up the interview.
She had money squirrelled away in various bank accounts.
squirrelly kids
The snake can squirt poison from a distance of a metre.
I desperately squirted water on the flames.
When I cut the lemon, juice squirted in my eye.
The children were squirting each other with water from the hose.
He squirted a water pistol at me (= made the water come out of it).
a squirt of perfume
SS Philip and James
the SS Titanic
9st 2lb
Fleet St
He was stabbed to death in a racist attack.
She stabbed him in the arm with a screwdriver.
He stabbed his finger angrily at my chest.
She stabbed the air with her fork.
(figurative) The pain stabbed at his chest.
He received several stabs in the chest.
She died of a single stab wound to the heart.
She felt a sudden stab of pain in the chest.
a stab of guilt/fear/pity/jealousy, etc.
He found the test difficult but nevertheless made a good stab at it.
Countless people have had a stab at solving the riddle.
The patient's condition stabilized.
government measures to stabilize prices
Doctors stabilized the patient's condition.
economic stabilization
a fatal stabbing
political/economic/social stability
the stability of the dollar on the world's money markets
Being back with their family should provide emotional stability for the children.
stable prices
a stable relationship
This ladder doesn't seem very stable.
The patient's condition is stable (= it is not getting worse).
Mentally, she is not very stable.
chemically stable
a riding/racing stables
His stables are near Oxford.
There have been just three winners from his stable this season.
actors from the same stable
the latest printer from the Epson stable
Where do you stable your pony?
the 'Daily Mirror' newspaper and its Scottish stablemate the 'Daily Record'
staccato sounds
The notes are played staccato.
a peculiar staccato voice
staccato bursts of gunfire
a stack of books
a stack hi-fi system (= where a radio, CD player, etc. are arranged on top of each other)
stacks of money
There's a stack of unopened mail waiting for you at the house.
I've got stacks of work to do.
to stack boxes
logs stacked up against a wall
Do these chairs stack?
stacking chairs
They were busy stacking the shelves with goods.
I tried a spin on the ice and stacked it.
Cars quickly stacked up behind the bus.
Let's try him in the job and see how he stacks up.
A mobile home simply doesn't stack up against a traditional house.
That can't be right. It just doesn't stack up.
a table stacked with glasses
a football/sports stadium
an all-seater stadium
medical staff
(BrE) teaching staff
(BrE) We have 20 part-time members of staff.
(NAmE) staff members
staff development/training
a staff restaurant/meeting
(especially BrE) a lawyer on the staff of the Worldwide Fund for Nature
a staff of ten(= a group of ten people)
I have ten staff working for me.
The staff in this shop are very helpful.
The staff in this store is very helpful.
the senator and his staff (singular)
senators and their staffs (plural)
students, faculty and staff
a staff officer
The advice centre is staffed entirely by volunteers.
The charity provided money to staff and equip two hospitals.
a fully staffed department
staffing levels
Staff Sergeant Bob Woods
This technology is still in its early stages.
The children are at different stages of development.
The product is at the design stage.
People tend to work hard at this stage of life.
At one stage it looked as though they would win.
Don't worry about the baby not wanting to leave you—it's a stage they go through.
We did the first stage of the trip by train.
The police are building up a picture of the incident stage by stage.
The pay increase will be introduced in stages (= not all at once).
We can take the argument one stage further.
The audience threw flowers onto the stage.
There were more than 50 people on stage in one scene.
They marched off stage to the sound of trumpets.
His parents didn't want him to go on the stage (= to be an actor).
She was a popular star of stage and screen (= theatre and cinema/movies).
She was forced to the centre of the political stage.
Germany is playing a leading role on the international stage.
to stage a ceremony/an event/an exhibition
The local theatre group is staging a production of 'Hamlet'.
Birmingham has bid to stage the next national athletics championships.
to stage a strike/demonstration/march/protest
The dollar staged a recovery earlier today.
After five years in retirement, he staged a comeback to international tennis.
'I knew this would happen,' she said in a stage whisper.
The injured woman staggered to her feet.
He staggered home, drunk.
We seem to stagger from one crisis to the next.
(figurative) The company is staggering under the weight of a £10m debt.
I managed to stagger the last few steps.
Her remarks staggered me.
It staggers me that the government is doing nothing about it.
There were so many runners that they had to stagger the start.
to walk with a stagger
I was staggered at the amount of money the ring cost.
staggered working hours (= people start and finish at different times)
staggeringly beautiful/expensive
a modern staging of 'King Lear'
a stagnant economy
Profits have stagnated.
I feel I'm stagnating in this job.
The water in the pond was stagnating.
a period of economic stagnation
I hope it doesn't stain the carpet.
This carpet stains easily.
The juice from the berries stained their fingers red.
to stain wood
Stain the specimen before looking at it under the microscope.
They stained the floors dark brown.
The events had stained the city's reputation unfairly.
a blood/a coffee/an ink, etc. stain
stubborn stains (= that are very difficult to remove)
How can I get this stain out?
The carpet has been treated so that it is stain-resistant (= it does not stain easily).
My dress was stained.
paint-stained jeans
We had to carry the piano up three flights of stairs.
The children ran up/down the stairs.
at the bottom/top of the stairs
He remembered passing her on the stairs.
How many stairs are there up to the second floor?
The house had a panelled hall and a fine oak stair.
the stair carpet
a marble/stone/wooden staircase
Joan of Arc was burnt at the stake.
a 20% stake in the business
She has a personal stake in the success of the play.
Many young people no longer feel they have a stake in society.
How much was the stake (= how much did you bet)?
They were playing cards for high stakes (= a lot of money).
He staked £25 on the favourite (= for example, in horse racing).
She staked her political career on tax reform, and lost.
That's him over there—I'd stake my life on it (= I am completely confident).
to stake newly planted trees
The President staked out his position on the issue.
Detectives had been staking out the house for several weeks.
The government has said it wants to create a stakeholder economy in which all members of society feel that they have an interest in its success.
stale cigarette smoke
stale sweat
stale jokes
Their marriage had gone stale.
After ten years in the job, she felt stale and needed a change.
The talks ended in (a) stalemate.
flowers on long stalks
celery stalks
He ate the apple, stalk and all.
Crabs have eyes on stalks.
The lion was stalking a zebra.
He stalked his victim as she walked home, before attacking and robbing her.
She claimed that he had been stalking her over a period of three years.
He stalked off without a word.
The gunmen stalked the building, looking for victims.
(figurative) Fear stalks the streets of the city at night.
a market stall
the front row of the stalls
The car stalled and refused to start again.
I stalled the car three times during my driving test.
They are still stalling on the deal.
'What do you mean?' she asked, stalling for time.
See if you can stall her while I finish searching her office.
attempts to revive the stalled peace plan
Discussions have once again stalled.
stalwart supporters
It takes a lot of stamina to run a marathon.
Many children stammer but grow out of it.
'W-w-what?' he stammered.
She was barely able to stammer out a description of her attacker.
a 62p stamp
Could I have three first-class stamps, please?
He has been collecting stamps since he was eight.
a stamp album
a date stamp
The passports, with the visa stamps, were waiting at the embassy.
(figurative) The project has the government's stamp of approval.
a TV licence stamp
All his work bears the stamp of authority.
men of a different stamp
The stamp of hoofs alerted Isabel.
I tried stamping my feet to keep warm.
Sam stamped his foot in anger.
The audience were stamping and cheering.
She turned and stamped out of the room.
The box was stamped with the maker's name.
Wait here to have your passport stamped.
I'll stamp the company name on your cheque.
The maker's name was stamped in gold on the box.
Their faces were stamped with hostility.
The crime had revenge stamped all over it.
Her success has stamped her as one of the country's top riders.
The child stamped on the spider.
All attempts at modernization were stamped on by senior officials.
She stamped her own interpretation on the role.
to stamp out racism
Please enclose a stamped addressed envelope to get your test results.
A stampede broke out when the doors opened.
Falling interest rates has led to a stampede to buy property.
a herd of stampeding elephants
A huge bunch of kids came stampeding down the corridor.
I refuse to be stampeded into making any hasty decisions.
What is the newspaper's stance on the war?
a bird standing on one leg
Don't just stand there —do something!
I was standing only a few feet away.
We all stood around in the corridor waiting.
to stand on your head/hands (= to be upside down, balancing on your head/hands)
After the earthquake, only a few houses were left standing.
Stand still while I take your photo.
Everyone stood when the President came in.
We stood up in order to get a better view.
Stand the ladder up against the wall.
I stood the little girl on a chair so that she could see.
The castle stands on the site of an ancient battlefield.
An old oak tree once stood here.
The house stood empty for a long time.
'You're wrong about the date—it was 1988.' ' I stand corrected (= accept that I was wrong).'
You never know where you stand with her—one minute she's friendly, the next she'll hardly speak to you.
As things stand, there is little chance of a quick settlement of the dispute.
The tower stands 30 metres high.
Interest rates stand at 3%.
The world record then stood at 6.59 metres.
The train standing at platform 3 is for London, Victoria.
Mix the batter and let it stand for twenty minutes.
standing pools of rainwater
My offer still stands.
The world record stood for 20 years.
You stand to make a lot from this deal.
Where do you stand on private education?
I can't stand the sight of blood.
I can't stand it when you do that.
I can't stand people interrupting all the time.
How do you stand him being here all the time?
His heart won't stand the strain much longer.
Modern plastics can stand very high and very low temperatures.
He stood drinks all round.
She was kind enough to stand us a meal.
He stood for parliament (= tried to get elected as an MP).
She stood unsuccessfully as a candidate in the local elections.
She stood aside to let us pass.
Don't stand aside and let others do all the work.
The police ordered the crowd to stand back.
The house stands back from the road.
It's time to stand back and look at your career so far.
Only one game stood between him and victory.
How can you stand by and see him accused of something he didn't do?
The troops are standing by.
her famous song, 'Stand by your man'
She still stands by every word she said.
He stood down to make way for someone younger.
'The book's by T.C. Smith.' 'What does the 'T.C.' stand for?'
I hated the organization and all it stood for (= the ideas that it supported).
I'm not standing for it any longer.
My assistant will stand in for me while I'm away.
Four points stand out as being more important than the rest.
The lettering stood out well against the dark background.
She's the sort of person who stands out in a crowd.
I don't like you standing over me while I'm cooking.
There were no seats left so I had to stand up.
You'll look taller if you stand up straight.
I've been stood up!
Always stand up for your friends.
You must stand up for your rights.
She had learnt to stand up for herself.
His argument simply doesn't stand up to close scrutiny.
I'm afraid this document will never stand up in a court of law.
It was brave of her to stand up to those bullies.
The carpet is designed to stand up to a lot of wear and tear.
to take a firm stand on sth
He was criticized for his tough stand on immigration.
We must make a stand against further job losses.
the rebels' desperate last stand
a hamburger/newspaper stand
a display/an exhibition/a trade stand
a bicycle/microphone/cake, etc. stand
He took the stand as the first witness.
Clinch and Harris shared an opening stand of 69.
a stand of pines
A developer bought the land and divided it into stands.
Your languages will stand you in good stead when it comes to finding a job.
a stand-up collar
When did you start doing stand-up?
She started out as a stand-up.
a fall in academic standards
We aim to maintain high standards of customer care.
The standard of this year's applications is very low.
He failed to reach the required standard, and did not qualify for the race.
Her work is not up to standard (= of a good enough standard).
Who sets the standard for water quality?
A number of Britain's beaches fail to meet European standards on cleanliness.
In the shanty towns there are very poor living standards.
You'd better lower your standards if you want to find somewhere cheap to live.
It was a simple meal by Eddie's standards.
The equipment is slow and heavy by modern standards.
a man of high moral standards
Standards aren't what they used to be.
a reduction in the weight standard of silver coins
industry standards
A standard letter was sent to all candidates.
Televisions are a standard feature in most hotel rooms.
the standard rate of tax (= paid by everyone)
It is standard practice to search visitors as they enter the building.
All vehicles come with a CD player as standard.
standard sizes of clothes
Standard English
a standardized contract/design/test
the standardization of components
I always keep a pizza in the freezer as a standby.
a standby electricity generator
a standing army
(BrE) a standing charge (= an amount of money that you pay in order to use a service, such as gas or water)
a standing committee
It's a standing joke (= something that a group of people regularly laugh at).
We have a standing invitation to visit them anytime.
a standing jump/start
The speaker got a standing ovation (= people stood up to clap after the speech).
the high/low standing of politicians with the public
The contract has no legal standing.
a friendship of many years' standing
standing room for 12 000 supporters
It was standing room only at the concert (= all the seats were sold).
the standout track on this album
a political/theoretical, etc. standpoint
He is writing from the standpoint of someone who knows what life is like in prison.
The security alert brought the airport to a standstill.
Traffic in the northbound lane is at a complete standstill.
A strange thing happened this morning.
She was looking at me in a very strange way.
It's strange (that) we haven't heard from him.
It's strange how childhood impressions linger.
That's strange —the front door's open.
I'm looking forward to the exam, strange as it may seem.
There was something strange about her eyes.
Strange to say, I don't really enjoy television.
a strange city
to wake up in a strange bed
Never accept lifts from strange men.
At first the place was strange to me.
The staple crop is rice.
Jeans are a staple part of everyone's wardrobe.
Aid workers helped distribute corn, milk and other staples.
Rubber became the staple of the Malayan economy.
Royal gossip is a staple of the tabloid press.
Staple the invoice to the receipt.
Staple the invoice and the receipt together.
a staple diet of meat and potatoes
Bamboo is the panda's staple diet.
Sex and violence seem to be the staple diet of television drama.
There was a big moon and hundreds of stars were shining overhead.
Sirius is the brightest star in the sky.
We camped out under the stars.
a horse with a white star on its forehead
a sheriff's star
I've put a star by the names of the girls in the class.
three-/four-/five-star hotels
What star rating does this restaurant have?
pop/rock/Hollywood, etc. stars
a football/tennis, etc. star
He's so good—I'm sure he'll be a big star.
She acts well but she hasn't got star quality.
The best models receive star treatment.
She was the star of many popular television series.
The star of the show was a young Italian singer.
the star role/part
a star student
Paula is the star of the class.
He was the star performer at the championships.
The star prize is a weekend for two in Paris.
The monkey was the star attraction (= the best or most popular act) at the show.
Thanks! You're a star!
Do you read your stars in the paper?
She starred opposite Cary Grant in 'Bringing up Baby'.
No one has yet been chosen for the starring role (= the main part).
a movie starring Meryl Streep and Pierce Brosnan
The studio wants to star her in a sequel to last year's hit.
Treat all the sections that have been starred as priority.
'What's your star sign?' 'Aquarius.'
Shakespeare's star-crossed lovers, Romeo and Juliet
a star-studded cast
There's too much starch in your diet.
You need to cut down on starches.
a starched white shirt
The group is being tipped for stardom (= people say they will be famous).
She shot to stardom in a Broadway musical.
I stared blankly at the paper in front of me.
He sat staring into space (= looking at nothing).
She looked at them with dark staring eyes.
She gave him a blank stare.
I think white would be too stark for the bedroom.
The hills stood stark against the winter sky.
The author paints a stark picture of life in a prison camp.
a stark choice
The remains of the building stand as a stark reminder of the fire.
He now faces the stark reality of life in prison.
stark differences
Social divisions in the city are stark.
The good weather was in stark contrast to the storms of previous weeks.
The children watched in stark terror.
The interior is starkly simple.
The lighthouse stood out starkly against the dark sky.
We are starkly aware of the risks.
a starless night
We walked home by starlight.
a starlit night
a beautiful starry night
starry flowers
I start work at nine.
He's just started a new job.
I only started (= began to read) this book yesterday.
We need to start (= begin using) a new jar of coffee.
The kids start school next week.
It started to rain.
Mistakes were starting to creep in.
She started laughing.
It's a long story. Where shall I start?
It's time you started on your homework.
Can you start (= a new job) on Monday?
Let's start by reviewing what we did last week.
The best professional musicians start young.
Have you any idea where the rumour started?
Who started the fire?
Do you start the day with a good breakfast?
You're always trying to start an argument.
The news started me thinking.
Start the engines!
I can't get the car started.
The car won't start.
There are a lot of small businesses starting up in that area.
They decided to start a catering business.
What time are we starting tomorrow?
I started after her (= began to follow her) to tell her the news.
He started for the door, but I blocked his way.
She started as a secretary but ended up running the department.
The company started out with 30 employees.
He started life as a teacher before turning to journalism.
The trail starts just outside the town.
Hotel prices start at €50 a night for a double room.
The evening started badly when the speaker failed to turn up.
The sudden noise made her start.
'Stop fighting, you two!' 'He started it!'
To start with it's much too expensive…
The club had only six members to start with.
I'll have melon to start with.
She wasn't keen on the idea to start with.
The horse started off at a steady trot.
Let's start off with some gentle exercises.
We started off by introducing ourselves.
The leaves start off green but turn red later.
I started off working quite hard, but it didn't last.
What started her off on that crazy idea?
Don't say anything to her—you'll start her off again (= make her get angry).
Kevin started us all off laughing.
My mother started me off on the piano when I was three.
His father started him off farming.
She started on at me again about getting some new clothes.
Don't start on about him not having a job.
to start out in business
She started out on her legal career in 2001.
I started out to write a short story, but it soon developed into a novel.
She wasn't happy with our work and made us start over.
I heard his car start up.
Start up the engines!
a perfect start to the day
Things didn't look too hopeful at the start of the year.
The meeting got off to a good/bad start (= started well/badly).
The trip was a disaster from start to finish.
We've had problems (right) from the start.
(informal) This could be the start of something big.
I'll paint the ceiling if you make a start on the walls.
I want to make an early start in the morning.
She's moving abroad to make a fresh start (= to begin a new life).
They worked hard to give their children a good start in life.
The job gave him his start in journalism.
The runners lined up at the start.
She went into the second round with a five-minute start on the rest of the cyclists.
I gave the younger children a start.
She has been beaten only once in six starts.
She woke from the dream with a start.
You gave me quite a start!
start-up costs
strategic planning
a strategic decision to sell off part of the business
Cameras were set up at strategic points (= in places where they would be most effective) along the route.
Malta was of vital strategic importance during the war.
a strategically placed microphone
a strategically important target
the government's economic strategy
to develop a strategy for dealing with unemployment
It's all part of an overall strategy to gain promotion.
marketing strategy
military strategy
defence strategies
Only 8 of the 28 starters completed the course.
He was a late starter in the theatre (= older than most people when they start).
a slow starter
a starter home (= a small home for sb who is buying property for the first time)
a starter kit/pack
The article served as a useful starting point for our discussion.
I didn't mean to startle you.
I was startled by her question.
It startled me to find her sitting in my office.
She looked at him with startled eyes.
He looked startled.
She jumped back like a startled rabbit.
a startling discovery
startling blue eyes
to die of/from starvation
Millions will face starvation next year as a result of the drought.
a starvation diet (= one in which you do not have much to eat)
They were on starvation wages (= extremely low wages).
The animals were left to starve to death.
pictures of starving children
The new job doesn't pay as much but we won't starve!
She's starving herself to try to lose weight.
supply-starved rebels
I felt starved of intelligent conversation.
The department has been starved of resources.
She has a fortune stashed away in various bank accounts.
a stash of money
a confused state of mind
He was in a state of permanent depression.
anxieties about the state of the country's economy
The building is in a bad state of repair (= needs to be repaired).
She was in a state of shock.
(BrE, informal) Look at the state of you! You can't go out looking like that.
You're not in a fit state to drive.
the Baltic States
European Union member states
the states of Victoria and Western Australia
the southern states of the US
matters/affairs of state
people who are financially dependent on the state
a state-owned company
They wish to limit the power of the State.
The president was driven in state through the streets.
I've never been to the States.
state education
families dependent on state benefits (= in Britain, money given by the government to people who are poor)
state secrets (= information that could be harmful to a country if it were discovered by an enemy)
The Queen is on a state visit to Moscow.
the state opening of Parliament
the state apartments (= used for official ceremonies)
a state prison/hospital/university, etc.
state police/troopers
a state tax
The facts are clearly stated in the report.
There is no need to state the obvious (= to say sth that everyone already knows).
State clearly how many tickets you require.
He stated categorically that he knew nothing about the deal.
It was stated that standards at the hospital were dropping.
The contract was stated to be invalid.
This is not one of their stated aims.
You must arrive at the time stated.
Do not exceed the stated dose (= of medicine).
the Nevada-California state line
The system was state of the art.
a state-of-the-art system
West Virginia was granted statehood in 1863.
an avenue of stately chestnut trees
a tall, stately woman
a stately dance
The procession made its stately progress through the streets of the city.
Are the following statements true or false?
Your statement is misleading.
Is that a statement or a question?
The play makes a strong political statement.
a formal/a public/a written/an official statement
The prime minister is expected to issue a statement on the policy change this afternoon.
The police asked me to make a statement (= a written account of facts concerning a crime, used in court if legal action follows).
The directors are responsible for preparing the company's financial statements.
My bank sends me monthly statements.
a statement of special educational needs
When writing instructions, clarity of statement is the most important thing.
statemented children
When are you next planning a trip stateside?
the party's elder statesman
He was commended for his statesmanlike handling of the crisis.
a statewide election
She won 10% of the vote statewide.
Prices on the stock market, which have been static, are now rising again.
a static population level
static pressure
My hair gets full of static when I brush it.
I get off at the next station.
the main station
Penn Station
a train station
(BrE also ) a railway station
(BrE) a tube/an underground station
(NAmE) a subway station
a bus/coach station
Can you tell me the way to the station?
the train station
the Greyhound Bus station
a police station
(BrE) a petrol station
(NAmE) a gas station
an agricultural research station
a pollution monitoring station
a local radio/TV station
He tuned to another station.
She was definitely getting ideas above her station.
You are not to leave your station without permission.
a naval station
troops stationed abroad
She stationed herself at the window to await his return.
I remained stationary.
The car collided with a stationary vehicle.
a stationary exercise bike
a stationary population
Is there a stationer's near here?
crime/unemployment, etc. statistics
According to official statistics the disease killed over 500 people.
Statistics show that far more people are able to ride a bicycle than can drive a car.
These statistics are misleading.
There is a compulsory course in statistics.
An important statistic is that 94 per cent of crime relates to property.
I felt I was no longer being treated as a person but as a statistic.
The difference between the two samples was not statistically significant.
a collection of marble statuary
The authority failed to carry out its statutory duties.
When you buy foods you have certain statutory rights.
an actress of considerable stature
The orchestra has grown in stature.
a woman of short stature
He is small in stature.
They were granted refugee status.
The party was denied legal status.
low status jobs
to have a high social status
Women are only asking to be given equal status with men.
She achieved celebrity status overnight.
The job brings with it status and a high income.
the high status accorded to science in our culture
What is the current status of our application for funds?
She updated her Facebook status to 'in a relationship'.
to defend/restore the status quo
conservatives who want to maintain the status quo
Exotic pets are the latest status symbol.
Penalties are laid down in the statute.
Corporal punishment was banned by statute in 1987.
Under the statutes of the university they had no power to dismiss him.
It's not yet on the statute book (= it has not yet become law).
a staunch supporter of the monarchy
one of the president's staunchest allies
a staunch Catholic
She staunchly defended the new policy.
The family was staunchly Protestant.
fence staves
The side of the boat was staved in when it hit the rocks.
to stave off hunger
to stay in bed
'Do you want a drink?' 'No, thanks, I can't stay.'
Stay there and don't move!
We ended up staying for lunch.
She stayed at home (= did not go out to work) while the children were young.
I'm staying late at the office tonight.
My hat won't stay on!
Can you stay behind after the others have gone and help me clear up?
We stayed to see what would happen.
They stayed talking until well into the night.
I'll stay and help you.
Can you stay and keep an eye on the baby?
He never stays angry for long.
I can't stay awake any longer.
The store stays open until late on Thursdays.
I don't know why they stay together (= remain married or in a relationship).
Inflation stayed below 4% last month.
We promised to stay friends for ever.
We found out we were staying in the same hotel.
My sister's coming to stay next week.
He's staying with friends this weekend.
I stayed three nights at my cousin's house.
Where do you stay (= where do you live)?
You can always stay the night at our house.
I'll stay around in case you need me.
I want you to stay away from my daughter.
I feel like staying in tonight.
to stay out of trouble
You've got school tomorrow. I don't want you staying up late.
I enjoyed my stay in Prague.
an overnight stay
steadfast loyalty
He remained steadfast in his determination to bring the killers to justice.
five years of steady economic growth
a steady decline in numbers
We are making slow but steady progress.
The castle receives a steady stream of visitors.
His breathing was steady.
a steady job/income
She drove at a steady 50 mph.
They set off at a steady pace.
a steady boyfriend/girlfriend (= with whom you have a serious relationship or one that has lasted a long time)
to have a steady relationship
He held the boat steady as she got in.
I met his steady gaze.
Such fine work requires a good eye and a steady hand.
The company's exports have been increasing steadily.
The situation got steadily worse.
He looked at her steadily.
The rain fell steadily.
She steadied herself against the wall.
The lift rocked slightly, steadied, and the doors opened.
Her heartbeat steadied.
The pound steadied against the dollar.
He took a few deep breaths to steady his nerves.
In trading today the dollar held steady against the yen.
Steady on! You can't say things like that about somebody you've never met.
Steady! Don't fall off.
fillet/rump/sirloin steak
How would you like your steak done?
a steak knife (= one with a special blade for eating steak with)
pork steak
a gammon steak
braising/stewing steak
a cod steak
We found out he'd been stealing from us for years.
My wallet was stolen.
I had my wallet stolen.
Thieves stole jewellery worth over £10 000.
It's a crime to handle stolen goods.
(figurative) to steal sb's ideas
She stole out of the room so as not to wake the baby.
(figurative) A chill stole over her body.
He tried to steal second base but was out.
The government was accused of trying to introduce the tax by stealth.
Lions rely on stealth when hunting.
a stealth bomber
a stealthy animal
a stealthy movement
Steam rose from the boiling kettle.
the introduction of steam in the 18th century
steam power
the steam age
a steam train/engine
She wiped the steam from her glasses.
a mug of steaming hot coffee
steamed fish
The boat steamed across the lake.
He spotted her steaming down the corridor towards him.
(figurative) The company is steaming ahead with its investment programme.
As he walked in, his glasses steamed up.
a steamy bathroom
steamy windows
the steamy heat of Tokyo
Otomo has created a steampunk portrait of Victorian England, where inventors race to get ahead of one another with new engines and discoveries.
The team steamrollered their way to victory.
She knew that she'd let herself be steamrollered.
the iron and steel industry
The frame is made of steel.
The bridge is reinforced with huge steel girders.
Steel used to be important in South Wales.
steel workers
a steel town
the clash of steel
As she waited, she steeled herself for disappointment.
He steeled himself to tell them the truth.
a cold, steely voice
a look of steely determination
steely blue eyes
a steep hill/slope/bank
a steep climb/descent/drop
a steep flight of stairs
The path grew steeper as we climbed higher.
a steep decline in the birth rate
a steep rise in unemployment
£2 for a cup of coffee seems a little steep to me.
a steeply sloping roof
The path climbed steeply upwards.
Prices rose steeply.
They spent a month steeping themselves in Chinese culture.
After a mile, the slope steepened.
He steered the boat into the harbour.
(figurative) He took her arm and steered her towards the door.
You row and I'll steer.
The ship steered a course between the islands.
The ship steered into port.
He managed to steer the conversation away from his divorce.
She steered the team to victory.
The skill is in steering a middle course between the two extremes.
Can anyone give me a steer on this?
a stellar performance
a long-stemmed rose
'Writ' is the stem of the forms 'writes', 'writing' and 'written'.
The cut was bandaged to stem the bleeding.
They discussed ways of stemming the flow of smuggled drugs.
The government had failed to stem the tide of factory closures.
an overpowering stench of rotting fish
(figurative) The stench of treachery hung in the air.
a baby's first steps
He took a step towards the door.
We heard steps outside.
He walked with a quick light step.
It's only a few steps further.
He turned around and retraced his steps (= went back the way he had come).
She moved a step closer to me.
The hotel is only a short step from the beach.
This was a first step towards a united Europe.
It's a big step giving up your job and moving halfway across the world.
We are taking steps to prevent pollution.
This won't solve the problem but it's a step in the right direction.
The new drug is a major step forward in the treatment of the disease.
Having completed the first stage, you can move on to step 2.
I'd like to take this idea a step further.
This was a big step up (= to a better position) in his career.
I'll explain it to you step by step.
a step-by-step guide to building your own home
She was sitting on the bottom step of the staircase.
We walked down some stone steps to the beach.
A short flight of steps led up to the door.
step aerobics
a step class
a pair of steps
We need the steps to get into the attic.
to step onto/off a bus
I stepped forward when my name was called out.
She stepped aside to let them pass.
We stepped carefully over the broken glass.
I turned around quickly and stepped on his toes.
(figurative) Going into the hotel is like stepping back in time.
We are learning to step back from ourselves and identify our strengths and weaknesses.
A local businessman stepped in with a large donation for the school.
The team coach was forced to step in to stop the two athletes from coming to blows.
I'm just going to step out for a few minutes.
She stepped up to receive her prize.
(figurative) Employers have stepped up to help bridge the gap between education and work.
He has stepped up his training to prepare for the race.
If he wants to win this election, he really needs to step it up (= put in more effort).
His speech called for a step change in attitudes to the environment in the 21st century.
stepmother
She's gradually turning into a Stepford wife.
the vast Russian steppes
a stepping stone to a more lucrative career
a car/personal stereo
Let's put some music on the stereo.
to broadcast in stereo
stereo sound
stereoscopic vision
cultural/gender/racial stereotypes
He doesn't conform to the usual stereotype of the businessman with a dark suit and briefcase.
the stereotypical image of feminine behaviour
Children from certain backgrounds tend to be stereotyped by their teachers.
Why are professors stereotyped as absent-minded?
a play full of stereotyped characters
sexual stereotyping
sterile bandages
sterile water
a sterile debate
The room felt cold and sterile.
He felt creatively and emotionally sterile.
The disease can cause sterility in men and women.
the meaningless sterility of statistics
She contemplated the sterility of her existence.
to sterilize surgical instruments
sterilized milk/water
the value of sterling
You can be paid in pounds sterling or American dollars.
He has done sterling work on the finance committee.
a stern face/expression/look
a stern warning
Her voice was stern.
The police are planning sterner measures to combat crime.
We face stern opposition.
beef stew and dumplings
I'm making a stew for lunch.
stewed apples
The meat needs to stew for two hours.
I've been stewing over the problem for a while.
Leave him to stew.
The organization certainly prospered under his stewardship.
That excuse simply won't wash with me.
The nurse stuck the needle into my arm.
Don't stick your fingers through the bars of the cage.
I found a nail sticking in the tyre.
He stuck a stamp on the envelope.
We used glue to stick the broken pieces together.
I stuck the photos into an album.
Her wet clothes were sticking to her body.
The glue's useless—the pieces just won't stick.
Stick your bags down there.
He stuck his hands in his pockets and strolled off.
Can you stick this on the noticeboard?
Peter stuck his head around the door and said, 'Coffee, anyone?'
(informal) Stick 'em up!(= Put your hands above your head—I have a gun!)
I got sick of my boss's moaning and told him he could stick the job.
The key has stuck in the lock.
This drawer keeps sticking.
I don't know how you stick that job.
The problem is, my mother can't stick my boyfriend.
John can't stick living with his parents.
The police couldn't make the charges stick (= show them to be true).
His friends called him Bart and the name has stuck (= has become the name that everyone calls him).
Stick around; we'll need you to help us later.
If you want to play an instrument well, you've got to stick at it.
They stuck by their decision.
I think I'll stick my name down on the list.
They wrote the notice in big red letters so that it would stick out.
His ears stick out.
She stuck her tongue out at me.
Don't stick your arm out of the car window.
She didn't like the course but she stuck it out to get the certificate.
They are sticking out for a higher pay rise.
She finds it impossible to stick to a diet.
He promised to help us and he stuck to his word (= he did as he had promised).
'Shall we meet on Friday this week?' 'No, let's stick to Saturday.'
She stuck to her story.
The branch was sticking up out of the water.
Stick up for what you believe.
She taught her children to stick up for themselves at school.
Don't worry—I'll stick up for you.
They decided to stick with their original plan.
We collected dry sticks to start a fire.
The boys were throwing sticks and stones at the dog.
Her arms and legs were like sticks (= very thin).
The old lady leant on her stick as she talked.
a hockey stick
a stick of dynamite
carrot sticks
(NAmE) a stick of butter
pieces of pineapple on sticks
The referee got a lot of stick from the home fans.
We live out in the sticks.
He's not such a bad old stick.
stick-on labels
This is a stick-up!
The long list of jobs on her CV suggests a lack of stickability.
The wheels were stuck in the mud.
This drawer keeps getting stuck.
She got the key stuck in the lock.
I can't get out—I'm stuck.
We were stuck in traffic for over an hour.
I hate being stuck at home all day.
I got stuck on the first question.
I'll help you if you're stuck.
If you're stuck for something to do tonight, come out with us.
I've never known him to be stuck for words before.
I was stuck with him for the whole journey.
bumper stickers (= on cars)
a sticker album (= to collect stickers in)
sticky fingers covered in jam
Stir in the milk to make a soft but not sticky dough.
a sticky situation
This was one of the major sticking points in the negotiations.
a stickler for punctuality
I don't mean to stickybeak, but when is he going to leave?
stiff cardboard
a stiff brush
The windows were stiff and she couldn't get them open.
I'm really stiff after that bike ride yesterday.
I've got a stiff neck.
Whisk the egg whites until stiff.
It was a stiff climb to the top of the hill.
The company faces stiff competition from its rivals.
The new proposals have met with stiff opposition.
There are stiff fines for breaking the rules.
a stiff breeze/wind (= one that blows strongly)
The speech he made to welcome them was stiff and formal.
There's a stiff $30 entrance fee to the exhibition.
a stiff whisky
pain and stiffness in her legs
be bored/scared/worried stiff
The clothes on the washing line were frozen stiff.
I came home from the game frozen stiff (= very cold).
She stiffened with fear.
I stiffened my back and faced him.
My muscles had stiffened up after the climb.
stiffened muscles
The threat of punishment has only stiffened their resolve (= made them even more determined to do sth).
She managed to stifle a yawn.
They hope the new rules will not stifle creativity.
The government failed to stifle the unrest.
I felt I was stifling in the airless room.
Most of the victims were stifled by the fumes.
a stifling room
' It's stifling in here—can we open a window?'
At 25, she found family life stifling.
The room was stiflingly hot.
the social stigma of alcoholism
There is no longer any stigma attached to being divorced.
I wrote to them last month and I'm still waiting for a reply.
Mum, I'm still hungry!
Do you still live at the same address?
There's still time to change your mind.
It was, and still is, my favourite movie.
We searched everywhere but we still couldn't find it.
The weather was cold and wet. Still, we had a great time.
The next day was warmer still.
If you can manage to get two tickets that's better still.
There was still more bad news to come.
still water
Keep still while I brush your hair.
The kids found it hard to stay still.
Can't you sit still?
We stayed in a village where time has stood still (= life has not changed for many years).
a still summer's day
the still night air
still mineral water
a publicity still from his new movie
a whisky still
The wind stilled.
She spoke quietly to still the frightened child.
(figurative) to still sb's doubts/fears
a stillborn baby
The sound of footsteps on the path broke the stillness.
a circus performer on stilts
We made stilted conversation for a few moments.
Coffee and tea are mild stimulants.
The exhibition has stimulated interest in her work.
The article can be used to stimulate discussion among students.
Parents should give children books that stimulate them.
Both men and women are stimulated by erotic photos (= sexually).
The conference stimulated him to study the subject in more depth.
The women were given fertility drugs to stimulate the ovaries.
sensory/intellectual/sexual/visual/physical stimulation
a stimulating discussion
a stimulating teacher
shower gel containing plant extracts that have a stimulating effect on the skin
Books provide children with ideas and a stimulus for play.
The new tax laws should act as a stimulus to exports.
sensory/verbal/visual stimuli
The animals were conditioned to respond to auditory stimuli (= sounds).
I was stung on the arm by a wasp.
Be careful of the nettles—they sting!
I put some antiseptic on the cut and it stung for a moment.
My eyes were stinging from the smoke.
Tears stung her eyes.
He was stung by their criticism.
They launched a stinging attack on the government.
Their cruel remarks stung her into action.
He was stung into answering in his defence.
I got stung for a £100 meal.
the sting of a bee
The scorpion has a sting in its tail.
A wasp or bee sting is painful but not necessarily serious.
the sting of salt in a wound
He smiled at her, trying to take the sting out of his words (= trying to make the situation less painful or difficult).
a sting operation to catch heroin dealers in Detroit
stringent air quality regulations
the government's stringent economic policies
a period of financial stringency
The rules are stringently enforced.
You're stingy! (= not willing to spend money)
Don't be so stingy with the cream!
Her breath stank of garlic.
It stinks of smoke in here.
The whole business stank of corruption.
'What do you think of the idea?' 'I think it stinks.'
the stink of sweat and urine
The whole business caused quite a stink.
We'll kick up a stink (= complain a lot and cause trouble) if they try to close the school down.
I was pushed into a filthy, stinking room.
I've got a stinking cold.
I wrote them a stinking letter to complain.
They must be stinking rich.
He did a stint abroad early in his career.
a two-year stint in the Navy
She never stints on the food at her parties.
We don't need to stint ourselves—have some more!
a monthly stipend
(especially NAmE) a summer internship with a small stipend
A delivery date is stipulated in the contract.
The job advertisement stipulates that the applicant must have three years' experience.
The policy stipulates what form of consent is required.
The only stipulation is that the topic you choose must be related to your studies.
The vegetables are stirred into the rice while it is hot.
Stir in the milk until the sauce thickens.
She heard the baby stir in the next room.
A slight breeze was stirring the branches.
A noise stirred me from sleep.
You haven't stirred from that chair all evening!
Come on, stir yourself. You're late!
Their complaints have finally stirred him into action.
a book that really stirs the imagination
She was stirred by his sad story.
A feeling of guilt began to stir in her.
You're just stirring it!
to stir up hatred
to stir up a debate
Whenever he's around, he always manages to stir up trouble.
We've got enough problems without you trying to stir things up.
The wind stirred up a lot of dust.
Her resignation caused quite a stir.
Could you give the rice a stir?
stir-fried chicken
She felt a stirring of anger.
a stirring performance
stirring memories
Try to keep the stitches small and straight.
to drop a stitch (= to lose one that you have made)
chain stitch
The cut needed eight stitches.
Can we slow down? I've got a stitch.
Her wedding dress was stitched by hand.
(figurative) An agreement was hastily stitched together (= made very quickly).
The cut will need to be stitched.
to stitch up a deal
They think they have the US market stitched up.
We have a fast turnover of stock.
That particular model is not currently in stock.
I'm afraid we're temporarily out of stock.
We don't carry a large stock of pine furniture.
She's built up a good stock of teaching materials over the years.
Food stocks are running low.
a country's housing stock (= all the houses available for living in)
stock prices
(NAmE) to invest in stocks and bonds
government stock
to invest in stocks and shares
breeding stock
vegetable stock
Their stock is high/low.
Do you stock green tea?
The pond was well stocked with fish.
a well-stocked library
We need to stock up the freezer.
We ought to stock up on film before our trip.
'No comment,' was the actor's stock response.
stock sizes
the London Stock Exchange
to lose money on the stock exchange
to make money on the stock market
a stock market crash (= when prices of shares fall suddenly and people lose money)
Famous people and their private lives are the stock-in-trade of the popular newspapers.
We stood stock-still watching the animals.
a pair of silk stockings
the world's stockpile of nuclear weapons
her stoic endurance
his stoical acceptance of death
She endured her long illness with stoicism.
to stoke up a fire with more coal
to stoke a furnace
to stoke up envy
They were accused of stoking the crisis.
Stoke up for the day on a good breakfast.
I'm really stoked that they chose me for the team.
stomach pains
an upset stomach
(BrE also ) a stomach upset
It's not a good idea to drink (= alcohol) on an empty stomach (= without having eaten anything).
You shouldn't exercise on a full stomach.
The attacker kicked him in the stomach.
Lie on your stomach with your arms by your side.
Pictures of the burnt corpses turned my stomach.
I can't stomach violent films.
I find him very hard to stomach.
She couldn't stomach any breakfast.
The team daily faces stomach-churning crime scenes.
She stomped angrily out of the office.
Most of the houses are built of stone.
stone walls
a stone floor
a flight of stone steps
a pile of stones
Some children were throwing stones into the lake.
These words are carved on the stone beside his grave.
cherry/peach stones
kidney stones
He weighs over 15 stone.
She's trying to lose a stone.
Shops were looted and vehicles stoned.
to be stoned to death (= as a punishment)
stoned black olives
My dad's taste in music is from the Stone Age (= very old-fashioned).
stone-age (= very out-of-date) computers
The soup was stone cold.
stony soil
They listened to him in stony silence.
She stared stonily at him for a minute.
a bar stool
a piano stool
She stooped down to pick up the child.
The doorway was so low that he had to stoop.
He tends to stoop because he's so tall.
You surely don't think I'd stoop to that!
I didn't think he'd stoop to cheating.
The car stopped at the traffic lights.
We stopped for the night in Port Augusta.
He was stopped by the police for speeding.
That phone never stops ringing!
Please stop crying and tell me what's wrong.
She criticizes everyone and the trouble is, she doesn't know when to stop.
Can't you just stop?
Stop me (= make me stop talking) if I'm boring you.
Stop it! You're hurting me.
Mike immediately stopped what he was doing.
When is this fighting going to stop?
The bus service stops at midnight.
Has it stopped raining yet?
Doctors couldn't stop the bleeding.
The referee was forced to stop the game because of heavy snow.
I want to go and you can't stop me.
We need more laws to stop pollution.
There's no stopping us now (= nothing can prevent us from achieving what we want to achieve).
There's nothing to stop you from accepting the offer.
You can't stop people from saying what they think.
You can't stop people saying what they think.
I'm hungry. Let's stop for lunch.
People just don't stop to think about the consequences.
He stopped and bought some flowers.
Let's stop and look at the map.
Why has the engine stopped?
I felt as if my heart had stopped.
I stopped the tape and pressed rewind.
I'm not stopping. I just came to give you this message.
Can you stop for tea?
to stop a cheque (= tell the bank not to pay it)
(BrE) Dad threatened to stop £1 a week from our pocket money if we didn't clean our rooms.
Stop up the other end of the tube, will you?
I stopped my ears but still heard her cry out.
I'll stop by this evening for a chat.
Could you stop by the store on the way home for some bread?
We stopped off at a hotel for the night.
I wanted to stop over in India on the way to Australia.
The trip included an overnight stop in Brussels.
She brought the car to a stop.
Work has temporarily come to a stop while the funding is reviewed.
It is time to put a stop to the violence.
Babies do not grow at a steady rate but in stops and starts.
I get off at the next stop.
Is this your stop?
stop-go driving in heavy traffic
the damaging stop-go economic cycle
The arrangement was only intended as a stopgap.
a stopgap measure
We had a two-day stopover in Fiji on the way to Australia.
Play resumed quickly after the stoppage.
stoppage time (= added on at the end of the game if there have been stoppages)
a stoppage of blood to the heart
tables that fold flat for storage
There's a lot of storage space in the loft.
food storage facilities
We need more storage now.
the storage and retrieval of information
data storage
When we moved we had to put our furniture in storage for a while.
a big department store
a health food store
a liquor store
her secret store of chocolate
a vast store of knowledge
medical stores
a grain store
weapons stores
animals storing up food for the winter
He hoped the electronic equipment was safely stored away.
Thousands of pieces of data are stored in a computer's memory.
She had stored up all her anger and eventually snapped.
By ignoring your feelings you are only storing up trouble for yourself.
store-bought cookies
They run their business from a small storefront.
a storefront office
Welcome to our online storefront.
the upper/lower storey of the house
a single-storey/two-storey building
a four-storeyed building
the rock star's storied career
fierce/heavy/violent storms
A few minutes later the storm broke (= began).
I think we're in for a storm (= going to have one).
storm damage
a thunderstorm/snowstorm/sandstorm
a storm of protest
A political storm is brewing over the Prime Minister's comments.
a storm of applause
The play took London by storm.
Police stormed the building and captured the gunman.
Soldiers stormed into the city at dawn.
She stormed into my office waving a newspaper.
He burst into tears and stormed off.
'Don't you know who I am?' she stormed.
(figurative) The storm clouds of revolution were gathering.
a dark and stormy night
stormy weather
stormy seas (= with big waves)
a stormy debate
a stormy relationship
Arsenal scored three late goals in a storming finish.
strong muscles
She wasn't a strong swimmer (= she could not swim well).
He's strong enough to lift a car!
Stay indoors in the middle of the day, when the sun is strongest.
a strong wind/current
a strong magnet
a strong drug
a strong leader/government
a strong team
(figurative) The temptation to tell her everything was very strong.
There is strong evidence of a link between exercise and a healthy heart.
You have a strong case for getting your job back.
a strong supporter/opponent of the government
strong support for the government
People have strong feelings about this issue.
a strong chair
You need strong nerves to ride a bike in London.
It's difficult, I know. But be strong!
a strong personality
a strong candidate for the job
You're in a strong position to negotiate a deal.
There's a strong possibility that we'll lose the game.
The play has a very strong cast.
Mathematics was never my strong point (= I was never very good at it).
There was a strong police presence at the demonstration.
a 5 000-strong crowd
The crowd was 5 000 strong.
Are you feeling stronger now after your rest?
a strong marriage
The college has strong links with local industry.
strong share prices
The euro is getting stronger against the dollar.
Their catering business remained strong despite the recession.
a strong smell
a strong feeling of nausea
a strong voice (= loud)
strong colours
a face with strong features (= large and noticeable)
She spoke with a strong Australian accent.
He was under strong pressure to resign.
strong cheese
strong black coffee
The movie has been criticized for strong language (= swearing).
a strongly built boat
a light shining strongly
a strongly worded protest
He was strongly opposed to the idea.
This is an issue I feel strongly about (= I have firm opinions about).
The room smelt strongly of polish.
the storyboarding process
a picture in a storybook
storybook characters
storybook adventures (= like the ones in stories for children)
a stout pair of shoes
He put up a stout defence in court.
He was tall and stoutly built.
'I disagree,' said Polly stoutly.
a gas/wood-burning stove
She put a pan of water on the stove.
(NAmE, BrE) Most people don't want to spend hours slaving over a hot stove (= cooking).
stovetop cooking
She found a seat, stowed her backpack and sat down.
He swung his leg over the motorcycle, straddling it easily.
The mountains straddle the French-Swiss border.
a writer who straddles two cultures
The town straggled to an end and the fields began.
On the way the kids straggled behind us.
a thin woman with grey, straggly hair
Keep straight on for two miles.
Can you stretch your arms out straighter?
He was too tired to walk straight.
I can't shoot straight (= accurately).
She looked me straight in the eye.
Come straight home after school.
I was so tired I went straight to bed.
She went straight from college to a top job.
I'm going to the library straight after the class.
I'll come straight to the point —your work isn't good enough.
Sit up straight!
She pulled her hat straight.
I told him straight that I didn't like him.
Are you playing straight with me?
They had been working for 16 hours straight.
She asked him straight off what he thought about it all.
I saw it—straight up!
a straight line
a straight road
long straight hair (= without curls)
a boat sailing in a straight line
straight-backed chairs
a straight skirt
a straight punch to the face
Is my tie straight?
It took hours to get the house straight.
a straight answer to a straight question
I don't think you're being straight with me.
It's time for some straight talking.
It was a straight choice between taking the job and staying out of work.
(BrE) The election was a straight fight between the two main parties.
The team has had five straight wins.
gays and straights
straight-ticket voting
I straightened my tie and walked in.
The road bends here then straightens out.
He stood up and straightened his shoulders.
I straightened myself up to answer the question.
Straighten up slowly, then repeat the exercise ten times.
I need time to straighten out my finances.
chemical straighteners
a straightforward process
It's quite straightforward to get here.
Let me put it more straightforwardly.
the straitjacket of taxation
Their marriage is under great strain at the moment.
These repayments are putting a strain on our finances.
Relax, and let us take the strain (= do things for you).
The transport service cannot cope with the strain of so many additional passengers.
You will learn to cope with the stresses and strains of public life.
I found it a strain having to concentrate for so long.
The rope broke under the strain.
You should try not to place too much strain on muscles and joints.
The ground here cannot take the strain of a large building.
The cable has a 140kg breaking strain (= it will break when it is stretched or pulled by a force greater than this).
a calf/groin/leg strain
muscle strain
a new strain of mosquitoes resistant to the poison
This is only one of the many strains of the disease.
He had a definite strain of snobbery in him.
She could hear the strains of Mozart through the window.
to strain a muscle
I strained my ears (= listened very hard) to catch what they were saying.
Necks were strained for a glimpse of the stranger.
People were straining to see what was going on.
He burst to the surface, straining for air.
Bend gently to the left without straining.
The sudden influx of visitors is straining hotels in the town to the limit.
His constant complaints were straining our patience.
The dispute has strained relations between the two countries (= made them difficult).
She strained against the ropes that held her.
The dogs were straining at the leash, eager to get to the park.
Use a colander to strain the vegetables.
Strain off any excess liquid.
Her face looked strained and weary.
He spoke in a low, strained voice.
There was a strained atmosphere throughout the meeting.
Relations between the two families are strained.
She gave a strained laugh.
a tea-strainer
the Strait(s) of Gibraltar
The factory is in dire straits.
She found herself in desperate financial straits.
The family of eight was living in straitened circumstances.
a strand of wool
a few strands of dark hair
She wore a single strand of pearls around her neck.
We heard every strand of political opinion.
The author draws the different strands of the plot together in the final chapter.
The strike left hundreds of tourists stranded at the airport.
The ship was stranded on a sandbank.
She's been acting very strangely lately.
The house was strangely quiet.
strangely shaped rocks
Strangely enough, I don't feel at all nervous.
There was a complete stranger sitting at my desk.
They got on well together although they were total strangers.
We've told our daughter not to speak to strangers.
She remained a stranger to me.
Sorry, I don't know where the bank is. I'm a stranger here myself.
He must have been a stranger to the town.
to strangle sb to death
He strangled her with her own scarf.
The current monetary policy is strangling the economy.
There was a strangled cry from the other room.
The company now had a stranglehold on the market.
He gave a strangulated squawk.
to die of slow strangulation
the strangulation of the human spirit
the shoulder straps of her dress
a watch with a leather strap
He strapped the knife to his leg.
Everything had to be strapped down to stop it from sliding around.
Are you strapped in (= wearing a seat belt in a car, plane, etc.)?
I have to keep my leg strapped up for six weeks.
a strapping lad
white strappy sandals
social stratification
a highly stratified society
stratified rock
stratospheric clouds
people from all social strata
a mattress filled with straw
a straw hat
He was leaning over the gate chewing on a straw.
strawberries and cream
strawberry plants
He strayed into the path of an oncoming car.
Her eyes kept straying over to the clock on the wall.
My mind kept straying back to our last talk together.
We seem to be straying from the main theme of the debate.
stray dogs
A civilian was killed by a stray bullet.
a few stray hairs
streaks of grey in her hair
dirty streaks on the window
a ruthless/vicious/mean streak
a streak of cruelty
a streak of good luck
to hit (= have) a winning streak
to be on a winning/losing streak
a lucky/an unlucky streak
Tears streaked her face.
She's had her hair streaked (= had special chemicals put on her hair so that it has attractive coloured lines in it).
His face was streaked with mud.
A car pulled out and streaked off down the road.
streaky blonde hair
The wallpaper was streaky with grease.
(BrE) streaky bacon (= with layers of fat in it)
mountain streams
A stream of blood flowed from the wound.
I've had a steady stream of visitors.
Cars filed past in an endless stream.
a constant stream of enquiries
The agency provided me with a steady stream of work.
She was put into the fast stream.
Tears streamed down his face.
a streaming cold (= with a lot of liquid coming from the nose)
Her head was streaming with blood.
Blood was streaming from her head.
Black smoke streamed from the exhaust.
The exhaust streamed black smoke.
People streamed across the bridge.
Her scarf streamed behind her.
Pupils are streamed for French and Maths.
Streaming within comprehensive schools is common practice.
The cars all have a new streamlined design.
The production process is to be streamlined.
Is there any way of stretching shoes?
This sweater has stretched.
The jeans stretch to provide a perfect fit.
Stretch the fabric tightly over the frame.
Make sure that the rope is stretched tight.
He stretched and yawned lazily.
The exercises are designed to stretch and tone your leg muscles.
She stretched across the table for the butter.
I stretched out a hand and picked up the book.
Fields and hills stretched out as far as we could see.
The town's history stretches back to before 1500.
The talks look set to stretch into a second week.
I need a new car, but my savings won't stretch to it.
The influx of refugees has stretched the country's resources to the limit.
We can't take on any more work—we're fully stretched as it is.
I need a job that will stretch me.
He admitted that he had maybe stretched the truth a little (= not been completely honest).
The play's plot stretches credulity to the limit.
He stretched himself out on the sofa and fell asleep.
an unspoilt stretch of coastline
a particularly dangerous stretch of road
You rarely see boats on this stretch of the river.
They worked in four-hour stretches.
She used to read for hours at a stretch (= without stopping).
He did a ten-year stretch for fraud.
We got out of the car and had a good stretch.
Only do these more difficult stretches when you are warmed up.
Stay in this position and feel the stretch in your legs.
You need a material with plenty of stretch in it.
stretch jeans
the finishing/home stretch
(figurative) The campaign has entered its final stretch.
The bank is just across the street.
to walk along/down/up the street
the town's narrow cobbled streets
92nd Street
10 Downing Street
He is used to being recognized in the street.
a street map/plan of York
street theatre/musicians
My office is at street level (= on the ground floor).
It's not safe to walk the streets at night.
The feeling I get from the street is that we have a good chance of winning this election.
The word on the street is that it's not going to happen.
a country that is streets ahead in the control of environmental pollution
street sports such as skateboarding and skating
street newspapers sold by the homeless
street culture/dance/law
Those clothes do nothing for your street cred.
drugs with a street value of over £1 million
Her position in the party has strengthened in recent weeks.
Yesterday the pound strengthened against the dollar.
The wind had strengthened overnight.
Repairs are necessary to strengthen the bridge.
The exercises are designed to strengthen your stomach muscles.
The move is clearly intended to strengthen the President's position as head of state.
The new manager has strengthened the side by bringing in several younger players.
Their attitude only strengthened his resolve to fight on.
The new evidence will strengthen their case.
He pushed against the rock with all his strength.
It may take a few weeks for you to build up your strength again.
He had a physical strength that matched his outward appearance.
She didn't have the strength to walk any further.
the strength of a rope
During this ordeal he was able to draw strength from his faith.
She has a remarkable inner strength.
You have shown great strength of character.
Political power depends upon economic strength.
Their superior military strength gives them a huge advantage.
to negotiate from a position of strength
The rally was intended to be a show of strength by the socialists.
the strength of public opinion
This view has recently gathered strength (= become stronger or more widely held).
I was surprised by the strength of her feelings.
The ability to keep calm is one of her many strengths.
the strengths and weaknesses of an argument
the strength of the sun
wind strength
the strength and direction of the tide
Add more curry powder depending on the strength required.
a range of beers with different strengths (= with different amounts of alcohol in them)
the strength of the dollar
The strength of the workforce is about to be doubled from 3 000 to 6 000.
The team will be back at full strength (= with all the best players) for the next match.
The protesters turned out in strength (= in large numbers).
These cuts have left the local police force under strength (= with fewer members than it needs).
a strenuous climb
Avoid strenuous exercise immediately after a meal.
How about a stroll in the park? Nothing too strenuous.
The ship went down although strenuous efforts were made to save it.
He still works out strenuously every morning.
The government strenuously denies the allegations.
Things can easily go wrong when people are under stress.
to suffer from stress
coping with stress
She failed to withstand the stresses and strains of public life.
emotional/mental stress
Stress is often a factor in the development of long-term sickness.
stress management (= dealing with stress)
When you have an injury you start putting stress on other parts of your body.
a stress fracture of the foot (= one caused by such pressure)
She lays great stress on punctuality.
I think the company places too much stress on cost and not enough on quality.
We worked on pronunciation, stress and intonation.
primary/secondary stress
In 'strategic' the stress falls on the second syllable.
Those most vulnerable to heat stress are the elderly.
He stressed the importance of a good education.
I must stress that everything I've told you is strictly confidential.
'There is,' Johnson stressed, 'no real alternative.'
It must be stressed that this disease is very rare.
I cannot stress too much how important this is.
You stress the first syllable in 'happiness'.
I try not to stress out when things go wrong.
Driving in cities really stresses me (out).
stressed metal
a stressful job
It was a stressful time for all of us.
He was carried off on a stretcher.
stretcher cases (= people too badly injured to be able to walk)
He was stretchered off the pitch with a broken leg.
stretchy fabric
Clothes were strewn across the floor.
The floor was strewn with clothes.
(figurative) The way ahead is strewn with difficulties.
Leaves strewed the path.
She raised her stricken face and begged for help.
We went to the aid of the stricken boat.
Whole villages were stricken with the disease.
He was stricken by a heart attack on his fiftieth birthday.
poverty-stricken families
She was brought up very strictly.
The industry is strictly regulated.
Smoking is strictly forbidden.
My letter is, of course, strictly private and confidential.
This is not strictly true.
We'll look at the problem from a strictly legal point of view.
I know we're friends, but this is strictly business.
strict rules/regulations/discipline
She left strict instructions that she was not to be disturbed.
He told me in the strictest confidence (= on the understanding that I would tell nobody else).
She's on a very strict diet.
a strict teacher/parent/disciplinarian
She's very strict about things like homework.
They were always very strict with their children.
a strict Muslim
a strict vegetarian
It wasn't illegal in the strict sense (of the word).
strictures against civil servants expressing political opinions
We strode across the snowy fields.
She came striding along to meet me.
He crossed the room in two strides.
I was gaining on the other runners with every stride.
his familiar purposeful stride
She did not slow her stride until she was face to face with us.
We're making great strides in the search for a cure.
a strident voice
strident music
He is a strident advocate of nuclear power.
strident criticism
civil strife
The country was torn apart by strife.
The child ran into the road and was struck by a car.
The tree was struck by lightning.
He fell, striking his head on the edge of the table.
The stone struck her on the forehead.
She struck him in the face.
He struck the table with his fist.
Who struck the first blow (= started the fight)?
He walked up to the penalty spot and struck the ball firmly into the back of the net.
The lion crouched ready to strike.
Police fear that the killer may strike again.
Two days later tragedy struck.
The area was struck by an outbreak of cholera.
An awful thought has just struck me.
I was struck by her resemblance to my aunt.
It suddenly struck me how we could improve the situation.
His reaction struck me as odd.
How does the idea strike you?
She strikes me as a very efficient person.
It strikes me that nobody is really in favour of the changes.
The windows sparkled as the sun struck the glass.
to be struck dumb/deaf/blind
The union has voted to strike for a pay increase of 6%.
Striking workers picketed the factory.
to strike a match on a wall
The sword struck sparks off the stone floor.
The matches were damp and he couldn't make them strike.
Did you hear the clock strike?
The clock has just struck three.
to strike a chord on the piano
They had struck oil!
We left the road and struck off across the fields.
He struck at me repeatedly with a stick.
to strike at the root of the problem
criticisms that strike at the heart of the party's policies
He was struck down by cancer at the age of thirty.
The Supreme Court struck down a Texas state law.
He struck off the rotten branches with an axe.
Strike her name off the list.
The doctor was struck off (= not allowed to continue to work as a doctor) for incompetence.
I knew it was time I struck out on my own.
The movie struck out and didn't win a single Oscar.
He lost his temper and struck out wildly.
In a recent article she strikes out at her critics.
The editor struck out the whole paragraph.
He struck out (= started swimming) towards the shore.
The orchestra struck up and the curtain rose.
The band struck up a waltz.
He would often strike up conversations with complete strangers.
the train drivers' strike
a strike by teachers
an unofficial/a one-day strike
Air traffic controllers are threatening to come out on/go on strike.
Half the workforce are now (out) on strike.
The train drivers have voted to take strike action.
The student union has called for a rent strike (= a refusal to pay rent as a protest).
an air strike
They decided to launch a pre-emptive strike.
His spectacular strike in the second half made the score 2–0.
The amount of fuel that this car uses is a big strike against it.
a strike-bound airport
a striking feature
She bears a striking resemblance to her older sister.
In striking contrast to their brothers, the girls were both intelligent and charming.
striking good looks
The two polls produced strikingly different results.
She is strikingly beautiful.
a Strine accent
a piece/length of string
He wrapped the package in brown paper and tied it with string.
The key is hanging on a string by the door.
a string of pearls
The molecules join together to form long strings.
a string of hits
He owns a string of racing stables.
The opening theme is taken up by the strings.
Major loans like these always come with strings.
It's a business proposition, pure and simple. No strings attached.
We strung paper lanterns up in the trees.
Flags were strung out along the route.
The route was strung with flags.
She had strung the shells on a silver chain.
(figurative) carbon atoms strung together to form giant molecules
She has no intention of giving you a divorce; she's just stringing you along.
They seem determined to string the talks out for an indefinite period.
I can barely string two words together in Japanese.
a string quartet
a string player
a string bag/vest
tough, stringy meat
a stringy neck
I stripped and washed myself all over.
She stripped down to her underwear.
We stripped off and ran down to the water.
He stood there stripped to the waist (= he had no clothes on the upper part of his body).
He was stripped naked and left in a cell.
Strip off all the existing paint.
After the guests had gone, I stripped all the beds (= removed all the sheets in order to wash them).
Deer had stripped all the bark off the tree.
Deer had stripped the tree of its bark.
We had to strip out all the old wiring and start again.
Thieves had stripped the house bare.
They taught us how to strip down a car engine and put it back together again.
He was disgraced and stripped of his title.
First, you need to strip away all the old plaster.
The movie aims to strip away the lies surrounding Kennedy's life.
a strip of material
Cut the meat into strips.
the Gaza Strip
The islands are separated by a narrow strip of water.
Juventus in their famous black and white strip
the team's away strip (= that they use when playing games away from home)
to do a strip
a strip show
Sunset Strip
a zebra's black and white stripes
a white tablecloth with red stripes
politicians of every stripe
commentators of all political stripes
She's an educator of a very different stripe.
a striped shirt
a blue and white striped jacket
a stripy jumper
a stripped-down version of the song
a male stripper
paint stripper
We encourage all members to strive for the highest standards.
striving against corruption
Newspaper editors all strive to be first with a story.
our striving for perfection
What a beautiful stroke!
He won by two strokes (= in golf, by taking two fewer strokes than his opponent).
His punishment was six strokes of the cane.
She took a few more strokes to reach the bank.
Butterfly is the only stroke I can't do.
He gave the cat a stroke.
to paint with fine brush strokes
At the stroke of a pen (= by signing sth) they removed thousands of people from the welfare system.
Your idea was a stroke of genius.
It was a stroke of luck that I found you here.
It was a bold stroke to reveal the identity of the murderer on the first page.
She never does a stroke (of work) (= never does any work).
At the first stroke it will be 9 o'clock exactly.
on the stroke of three (= at 3 o'clock exactly)
to have/suffer a stroke
The stroke left him partly paralysed.
He's a beautiful dog. Can I stroke him?
He stroked her hair affectionately.
She stroked away his tears.
He stroked the ball between the posts.
People were strolling along the beach.
We went for a stroll in the park.
to use strong-arm tactics against your political opponents
a Republican stronghold/a stronghold of Republicanism
This valley is one of the last strongholds of the Siberian tiger.
Don't get in a strop —I'm only a few minutes late.
Don't get stroppy with me—it isn't my fault!
the structure of the building
changes in the social and economic structure of society
a stone/brick/wooden structure
Your essay needs (a) structure.
How well does the teacher structure the lessons?
Make use of the toys in structured group activities.
The exhibition is structured around the themes of work and leisure.
Storms have caused structural damage to hundreds of homes.
structural changes in society
The building is structurally sound.
The languages are structurally different.
a structuralist approach
a country struggling for independence
Shona struggled for breath.
life as a struggling artist (= one who is very poor)
They struggled just to pay their bills.
I struggled up the hill with the heavy bags.
Paul struggled out of his wheelchair.
He struggled against cancer for two years.
Lisa struggled with her conscience before talking to the police.
I struggled and screamed for help.
Ben and Jack struggled together on the grass.
James was hit in the mouth as he struggled with the raiders.
How did she manage to struggle free?
rival leaders struggling for power
a power/leadership struggle
a struggle for independence
He is engaged in a bitter struggle with his rival to get control of the company.
the struggle between good and evil
She will not give up her children without a struggle.
There were no signs of a struggle at the murder scene.
It was a real struggle to be ready on time.
As she sang she strummed on a guitar.
a group of riders strung out along the beach
The players strutted and posed for the cameras.
stubby fingers
He was too stubborn to admit that he was wrong.
She can be as stubborn as a mule.
stubborn pride
a stubborn resistance to change
a stubborn refusal to listen
a stubborn cough/stain
a stubborn problem
She stubbornly refused to pay.
Unemployment remains stubbornly high.
a stuccoed wall
diamond studs
a leather jacket with studs on the back
a stud farm
The horse was retired from racing and put out to stud (= kept for breeding).
a studded leather belt
The sky was clear and studded with stars.
an essay studded with quotations
Stars studded the sky.
a room set aside for private study
academic/literary/scientific, etc. study
It is important to develop good study skills.
Physiology is the study of how living things work.
to continue your studies
business/media/American studies
These proposals deserve careful study.
to make/carry out/conduct a study
This study shows/confirms/suggests that…
a detailed study of how animals adapt to their environment
a study of Chartres Cathedral
a nude study
His face was a study in concentration.
How long have you been studying English?
Don't disturb Jane, she's studying for her exams.
My brother studied at the Royal College of Art.
a composer who studied under Nadia Boulanger (= was taught by Nadia Boulanger)
Nina is studying to be an architect.
Scientists are studying photographs of the planet for signs of life.
He studied her face thoughtfully.
Fran was studying the menu.
The group will study how the region coped with the loss of thousands of jobs.
a medical/science, etc. student
a graduate/postgraduate/research student
an overseas student
a student teacher/nurse
a student grant/loan (= money that is given/lent to students to pay for their studies)
student fees (= to pay for the cost of teaching)
She's a student at Sussex University.
a 15-year-old high school student
a keen student of human nature
She introduced herself with studied casualness.
a television studio
a studio audience (= one in a studio, that can be seen or heard as a programme is broadcast)
She works for a major Hollywood studio.
a studio executive
a sculptor's studio
a dance studio
a studious young man
He studiously avoided answering the question.
What's all that sticky stuff on the carpet?
The chairs were covered in some sort of plastic stuff.
This wine is good stuff.
(disapproving) I don't know how you can eat that stuff!
They sell stationery and stuff (like that).
Where's all my stuff (= my possessions)?
(disapproving) Could you move all that stuff off the table?
I've got loads of stuff to do today.
I like reading and stuff.
The band did some great stuff on their first album.
This is all good stuff. Well done!
What's all this 'Mrs Smith' stuff? Call me Anna.
I don't believe in all that stuff about ghosts.
The trip was magical; the stuff of which dreams are made.
Parades and marches were the very stuff of politics in the region.
Let's see what stuff you're made of (= what sort of person you are).
She had 500 envelopes to stuff with leaflets.
She had 500 leaflets to stuff into envelopes.
The fridge is stuffed to bursting.
All the drawers were stuffed full of letters and papers.
She stuffed the money under a cushion.
His hands were stuffed in his pockets.
Are you going to stuff the turkey?
stuffed peppers
He sat at the table stuffing himself.
Don't stuff the kids with chocolate before their dinner.
We stuffed our faces at the party.
They had had their pet dog stuffed.
I didn't want a part in the play, then I thought—stuff it—why not?
I told them they could stuff their job.
stuffed animals in glass cases
a stuffy room
It gets very hot and stuffy in here in summer.
a stuffy, formal family
plain, stuffy clothes
the stultifying effects of work that never varies
The child stumbled and fell.
I stumbled over a rock.
We were stumbling around in the dark looking for a candle.
In her nervousness she stumbled over her words.
I stumbled through the piano piece with difficulty.
Police have stumbled across a huge drugs ring.
I stumbled into acting when I left college.
the stump of a pencil
The senator gave his standard stump speech.
politicians on the stump
I'm stumped. I don't know how they got here before us.
Kate was stumped for words (= unable to answer).
He stumped off, muttering under his breath.
He stumped around the country trying to build up support.
We were asked to stump up for the repairs.
Who is going to stump up the extra money?
stumpy fingers
a stumpy tail
The fall stunned me for a moment.
The animals are stunned before slaughter.
They were stunned by the view from the summit.
She was too stunned to speak.
There was a stunned silence when I told them the news.
You look absolutely stunning!
a stunning view of the lake
He suffered a stunning defeat in the election.
stunningly beautiful
a stunningly simple idea
He did all his own stunts.
a stunt pilot
a publicity stunt
I've had enough of her childish stunts.
Don't you ever pull a stunt like that again!
The constant winds had stunted the growth of plants and bushes.
His illness had not stunted his creativity.
stunted trees
the stunted lives of children deprived of education
Buddhist stupas and monasteries
The first stupas were built to house the ashes of Buddha.
India's stupas were not just religious monuments, but also cultural centres.
He was stupefied by the amount they had spent.
She was stupefied with cold.
stupefying boredom
The party was stupefyingly dull.
stupendous achievements
stupendous costs
a stupid mistake
It was a pretty stupid thing to do.
I was stupid enough to believe him.
It was stupid of you to get involved.
He'll manage—he isn't stupid.
Forgetting my notes made me look stupid.
I can't get the stupid thing open!
Get your stupid feet off the chair!
I stupidly agreed to lend him the money.
Todd stared stupidly at the screen.
Yes, stupid, it's you I'm talking to!
I couldn't believe my own stupidity.
the errors and stupidities of youth
He drank himself into a stupor.
a drunken stupor
a sturdy pair of boots
a sturdy table
a man of sturdy build
sturdy legs
a sturdy breed of cattle
The village has always maintained a sturdy independence.
The boat was sturdily made.
a sturdily built young man
a sturdily independent community
'W-w-what?' he stuttered.
I managed to stutter a reply.
The car stuttered along in first gear.
He had a terrible stutter.
Stygian gloom
a style of management
a management style
furniture to suit your style of living
a study of different teaching styles
I like your style (= I like the way you do things).
Caution was not her style (= not the way she usually behaved).
I'm surprised he rides a motorbike—I'd have thought big cars were more his style (= what suited him).
We stock a wide variety of styles and sizes.
Have you thought about having your hair in a shorter style?
style-conscious teenagers
Short skirts are back in style (= fashionable).
The hotel has been redecorated but it's lost a lot of its style.
She does everything with style and grace.
a style of architecture
a fine example of Gothic style
a parody written in the style of Molière
It's not considered good style to start a sentence with 'but'.
Please follow house style (= the rules of spelling, etc. used by a particular publishing company).
Italian-style gardens
a buffet-style breakfast
an elegantly styled jacket
He'd had his hair styled at an expensive salon.
He styled himself Major Carter.
a coffee bar styled on a Parisian cafe
He styled himself on Elvis Presley.
styling gel
The car has been criticized for its outdated body styling.
a stylized drawing of a house
the highly stylized form of acting in Japanese theatre
his stylish wife
a stylish restaurant
It was a stylish performance by both artists.
stylistic analysis
stylistic features
I use a styptic pencil on shaving cuts.
Styrofoam cups
He came on as sub.
He was subbed after just five minutes because of a knee injury.
For a lower-calorie version of the recipe, try subbing milk for cream.
Could you sub me £50 till next week?
sub-zero temperatures
a subtropical (= almost tropical) climate
substandard
subway
submarine
subdivide
subset
sub-aqua diving
sub-aqua equipment
a sub-prime loan/mortgage
subprime lenders/borrowers
sub-Saharan Africa
subatomic particles
subconscious desires
the subconscious mind
Subconsciously, she was looking for the father she had never known.
the Indian subcontinent
We subcontracted the work to a small engineering firm.
We subcontracted a small engineering firm to do the work.
the criminal/drug/youth, etc. subculture
a subcutaneous injection
a police subdivision (= the area covered by one particular police force)
subdivisions within the Hindu caste system
Troops were called in to subdue the rebels.
Julia had to subdue an urge to stroke his hair.
He seemed a bit subdued to me.
She was in a subdued mood.
The reception was a subdued affair.
subdued lighting
a subdued conversation
a period of subdued trading
subsequent generations
Subsequent events confirmed our doubts.
Developments on this issue will be dealt with in a subsequent report.
subhuman behaviour
They were living in subhuman conditions.
an unpleasant subject of conversation
books on many different subjects
a magazine article on the subject of space travel
I have nothing more to say on the subject.
I wish you'd change the subject (= talk about sth else).
How did we get onto the subject of marriage?
We seem to have got off the subject we're meant to be discussing.
Nelson Mandela is the subject of a new biography.
Climate change is still very much a subject for debate.
Biology is my favourite subject.
Focus the camera on the subject.
Classical landscapes were a popular subject with many 18th century painters.
We need male subjects between the ages of 18 and 25 for the experiment.
a British subject
Flights are subject to delay because of the fog.
The article is ready to publish, subject to your approval.
All the holidays on offer are subject to availability.
All nuclear installations are subject to international safeguards.
subject peoples
The Roman Empire subjected most of Europe to its rule.
to be subjected to ridicule
The city was subjected to heavy bombing.
The defence lawyers claimed that the prisoners had been subjected to cruel and degrading treatment.
The artist was revolutionary in both subject matter and technique.
She's searching for subject matter for her new book.
a highly subjective point of view
Everyone's opinion is bound to be subjective.
People who are less subjectively involved are better judges.
subjectively perceived changes
There is an element of subjectivity in her criticism.
a subjugated race
Her personal ambitions had been subjugated to (= considered less important than) the needs of her family.
the subjugation of Ireland by England
The verb is in the subjunctive.
In 'I wish I were taller', 'were' is a subjunctive.
the subjunctive mood
sublime beauty
a sublime combination of flavours
the sublime confidence of youth
sublimely beautiful
She was sublimely unaware of the trouble she had caused.
He transforms the most ordinary subject into the sublime.
subliminal advertising
a nuclear submarine
a submarine base
submarine plant life
submarine cables
The submarine had had time to submerge before the warship could approach.
The fields had been submerged by floodwater.
Doubts that had been submerged in her mind suddenly resurfaced.
Her submerged car was discovered in the river by police divers.
a submersible camera
a gesture of submission
to beat/force/starve sb into submission
When is the final date for the submission of proposals?
They prepared a report for submission to the council.
All parties will have the opportunity to make submissions relating to this case.
He expected his daughters to be meek and submissive.
She followed him like a submissive child.
'You're right and I was wrong,' he said submissively.
to submit an application/a claim/a complaint
Completed projects must be submitted by 10 March.
She refused to submit to threats.
He submitted himself to a search by the guards.
Counsel for the defence submitted that the evidence was inadmissible.
subnormal temperatures
educationally subnormal children
Some breeders keep their animals in suboptimal conditions.
A score of 6 is optimal; 5 or less is suboptimal.
In many societies women are subordinate to men.
All other issues are subordinate to this one.
the relationship between subordinates and superiors
Safety considerations were subordinated to commercial interests.
to suborn a witness
a subpar performance
Which journals does the library subscribe to?
We subscribe to several sports channels (= on TV).
He subscribed to a newsgroup (= on the Internet).
To hear the full interview, subscribe to the free National Geographic News podcast.
He subscribes regularly to Amnesty International.
The tour of Edinburgh is fully subscribed.
The authorities no longer subscribe to the view that disabled people are unsuitable as teachers.
subscribers to cable television
A subscript is used for secondary stress.
The subscript 'B' designates 'Brown'.
an annual subscription
to take out a subscription to 'Newsweek'
to cancel/renew a subscription
Copies are available by subscription.
a monthly subscription to Oxfam
A statue in his memory was erected by public subscription.
There have been further developments subsequent to our meeting.
The original interview notes were subsequently lost.
Subsequently, new guidelines were issued to all employees.
The press was accused of being subservient to the government.
The needs of individuals were subservient to those of the group as a whole.
subsidiary information
a subsidiary matter
(BrE) I'm taking History as a subsidiary subject (= one that is not studied in as great depth as a main subject).
She waited nervously for his anger to subside.
I took an aspirin and the pain gradually subsided.
The flood waters gradually subsided.
Weak foundations caused the house to subside.
agricultural subsidies
to reduce the level of subsidy
The housing projects are subsidized by the government.
She's not prepared to subsidize his gambling any longer.
Old people often subsist on very small incomes.
The terms of the contract subsist.
Many families are living below the level of subsistence.
to live below (the) subsistence level
They had no visible means of subsistence.
subsistence agriculture/farming (= growing enough only to live on, not to sell)
subsistence crops
He worked a 16-hour day for a subsistence wage (= enough money to buy only basic items).
a meat substitute
a substitute family
Paul's father only saw him as a substitute for his dead brother.
The course teaches you the theory but there's no substitute for practical experience.
The local bus service was a poor substitute for their car.
He was brought on as (a) substitute after half-time.
Nothing can substitute for the advice your doctor is able to give you.
Margarine can be substituted for butter in this recipe.
Butter can be substituted with margarine in this recipe.
Ronaldo was substituted in the second half after a knee injury (= somebody else played instead of Ronaldo in the second half).
the substitution of low-fat spreads for butter
Two substitutions were made during the game.
a chemical/radioactive, etc. substance
banned/illegal substances (= drugs)
a sticky substance
It was malicious gossip, completely without substance.
The commission's report gives substance to these allegations.
There is some substance in what he says.
Love and guilt form the substance of his new book.
I agreed with what she said in substance, though not with every detail.
matters of substance
Nothing of any substance was achieved in the meeting.
Which planets can sustain life?
The love and support of his family sustained him during his time in prison.
a period of sustained economic growth
a sustained attack
She managed to sustain everyone's interest until the end of her speech.
to sustain damage/an injury/a defeat
The company sustained losses of millions of dollars.
The evidence is not detailed enough to sustain his argument.
The ice will not sustain your weight.
The court sustained his claim that the contract was illegal.
Objection sustained!(= said by a judge when a lawyer makes an objection in court)
substandard goods
substantial sums of money
a substantial change
Substantial numbers of people support the reforms.
He ate a substantial breakfast.
a substantial house
The costs have increased substantially.
The plane was substantially damaged in the crash.
What she says is substantially true.
The results of the tests substantiated his claims.
substantive issues
The report concluded that no substantive changes were necessary.
6 subtracted from 9 is 3.
a substructure of timber piles
(figurative) the substructure of national culture
All these different ideas can be subsumed under just two broad categories.
a subterranean cave
a Polish film with English subtitles
Is the movie dubbed or are there subtitles?
a Spanish film subtitled in English
The book is subtitled 'New language for new times'.
subtle colours/flavours/smells, etc.
There are subtle differences between the two versions.
She's been dropping subtle hints about what she'd like as a present.
I decided to try a more subtle approach.
a subtle plan
a subtle use of lighting in the play
The job required a subtle mind.
Her version of events is subtly different from what actually happened.
Not very subtly, he raised the subject of money.
It's a thrilling movie even though it lacks subtlety.
the subtleties of language
a suburb of London
a London suburb
They live in the suburbs.
suburban areas
a suburban street
life in suburban London
a suburban lifestyle
He was a known political subversive.
the New York subway
a subway station/train
a downtown subway stop
to ride/take the subway
Our plan succeeded.
He succeeded in getting a place at art school.
I tried to discuss it with her but only succeeded in making her angry (= I failed and did the opposite of what I intended).
You will have to work hard if you are to succeed.
She doesn't have the ruthlessness required to succeed in business.
He had hoped to succeed as a violinist.
Who succeeded Kennedy as President?
Their early success was succeeded by a period of miserable failure.
Strands of DNA are reproduced through succeeding generations.
She succeeded to the throne (= became queen) in 1558.
What's the secret of your success?
I didn't have much success in finding a job.
They didn't have much success in life.
Confidence is the key to success.
economic success
Their plan will probably meet with little success.
She was surprised by the book's success (= that it had sold a lot of copies).
The party was a big success.
He's proud of his daughter's successes.
She wasn't a success as a teacher.
He was determined to make a success of the business.
They were successful in winning the contract.
I wasn't very successful at keeping the news secret.
We congratulated them on the successful completion of the project.
The play was very successful on Broadway.
a successful actor
a succession of visitors
He's been hit by a succession of injuries since he joined the team.
She has won the award for the third year in succession.
They had three children in quick succession.
The gunman fired three times in rapid succession.
the succession of the seasons
He became chairman in succession to Bernard Allen.
She's third in order of succession to the throne.
This was their fourth successive win.
Successive governments have tried to tackle the problem.
This concept has been applied successively to painting, architecture and sculpture.
Who's the likely successor to him as party leader?
Their latest release is a worthy successor to their popular debut album.
Keep your answers as succinct as possible.
a succinct explanation
You put that very succinctly.
a succulent pear/steak
The town succumbed after a short siege.
His career was cut short when he succumbed to cancer.
He finally succumbed to Lucy's charms and agreed to her request.
He's highly susceptible to flattery.
Some of these plants are more susceptible to frost damage than others.
Salt intake may lead to raised blood pressure in susceptible adults.
She was both charming and susceptible.
Is this situation not susceptible of improvement by legislation?
They had been invited to a Hindu wedding and were not sure what happened on such occasions.
He said he didn't have time or made some such excuse.
She longed to find somebody who understood her problems, and in him she thought she had found such a person.
We were second-class citizens and they treated us as such.
Accountants were boring. Such (= that) was her opinion before meeting Ian!
There is no such thing as a free lunch.
Such advice as he was given (= it was not very much) has proved almost worthless.
The knot was fastened in such a way that it was impossible to undo.
The damage was such that it would cost thousands to repair.
This issue was of such importance that we could not afford to ignore it.
Why are you in such a hurry?
(informal) It's such a beautiful day!
(formal) Such is the elegance of this typeface that it is still a favourite of designers.
Wild flowers such as primroses are becoming rare.
'There are loads of things to do.' 'Such as?' (= give me an example)
Opportunities such as this did not come every day.
The food, such as it was, was served at nine o'clock.
Always say at the start of an application that you're applying for such-and-such a job because…
You can buy brushes, paint, varnish and suchlike there.
food, drink, clothing and suchlike provisions
to commit suicide
an attempted suicide (= one in which the person survives)
a suicide letter/note (= written before sb tries to commit suicide )
a suicide bomber (= who expects to die while trying to kill other people with a bomb)
It would have been political suicide for him to challenge the allegations in court.
to suck the juice from an orange
She was noisily sucking up milk through a straw.
The baby sucked at its mother's breast.
She sucked on a mint.
She sucked a mint.
Stop sucking your thumb!
The pump sucks air out through the valve.
Greenfly can literally suck a plant dry.
The canoe was sucked down into the whirlpool.
Their new CD sucks.
I've always been a sucker for men with green eyes.
The pilot said, 'I don't know how I got the sucker down safely.'
I was suckered into helping.
a cow suckling her calves
(old-fashioned) a mother suckling a baby
Vacuum cleaners work by suction.
a suction pump/pad
a sudden change
Don't make any sudden movements.
His death was very sudden.
It was only decided yesterday. It's all been very sudden.
a sudden-death play-off in golf
'Listen!' said Doyle suddenly.
I suddenly realized what I had to do.
It all happened so suddenly.
He passes the time doing sudokus.
She was up to her elbows in suds.
to sue sb for breach of contract
to sue sb for $10 million (= in order to get money from sb)
to sue sb for damages
They threatened to sue if the work was not completed.
to sue for divorce
The rebels were forced to sue for peace.
a suede jacket
suet pudding (= one made using suet )
Allow sufficient time to get there.
These reasons are not sufficient to justify the ban.
Is £100 sufficient for your expenses?
The following day she felt sufficiently well to go to work.
I hate to see animals suffering.
He suffers from asthma.
road accident victims suffering from shock
Many companies are suffering from a shortage of skilled staff.
He made a rash decision and now he is suffering for it.
He suffered a massive heart attack.
The party suffered a humiliating defeat in the general election.
The company suffered huge losses in the last financial year.
His school work is suffering because of family problems.
universal suffrage (= the right of all adults to vote)
women's suffrage
cancer sufferers
She received many letters of support from fellow sufferers.
Death finally brought an end to her suffering.
This war has caused widespread human suffering.
The hospice aims to ease the sufferings of the dying.
Generally a brief note or a phone call will suffice.
One example will suffice to illustrate the point.
Many dogs have suffocated in hot cars.
The couple were suffocated by fumes from a faulty gas fire.
He put the pillow over her face and suffocated her.
(figurative) She felt suffocated by all the rules and regulations.
Can I open a window? It's suffocating in here!
to die of suffocation
The afternoon heat was suffocating.
Some marriages can sometimes feel suffocating.
Her face was suffused with colour.
Colour suffused her face.
a sugar plantation/refinery/bowl
This juice contains no added sugar.
Do you take sugar (= have it in your tea, coffee, etc.)?
How many sugars do you take in coffee?
fruit sugars
a person's blood sugar level (= the amount of glucose in their blood)
See you later, sugar.
Oh sugar! I've forgotten my book!
a sugar-coated promise
sugary snacks
a sugary smile
sugary pop songs
May I suggest a white wine with this dish, Sir?
A solution immediately suggested itself to me (= I immediately thought of a solution).
I suggest (that) we go out to eat.
I suggested going in my car.
It has been suggested that bright children take their exams early.
(BrE also ) It has been suggested that bright children should take their exams early.
How about going out for a walk on Saturday?
Shall we ask Sarah to come along?(BrE or formal, NAmE)
Should we ask Sarah to come along?(especially NAmE)
We could go a bit earlier and have a drink first, if you like.
What do you think of the idea of sending this to the Research Department?
Why don't you try calling his landline?
Why not just wait until they come back?
Why not simply explain your problem to them and see what they say?(BrE or formal, NAmE)
Who would you suggest for the job?
She suggested Paris as a good place for the conference.
Can you suggest a good dictionary?
Can you suggest how I might contact him?
All the evidence suggests (that) he stole the money.
The symptoms suggest a minor heart attack.
What do these results suggest to you?
Are you suggesting (that) I'm lazy?
I would never suggest such a thing.
He was young and highly suggestible.
Can I make a suggestion?
Do you have any suggestions?
I'd like to hear your suggestions for ways of raising money.
Are there any suggestions about how best to tackle the problem?
We welcome any comments and suggestions on these proposals.
He agreed with my suggestion that we should change the date.
We are open to suggestions (= willing to listen to ideas from other people).
We need to get it there by four. Any suggestions?
A spokesman dismissed any suggestion of a boardroom rift.
There was no suggestion that he was doing anything illegal.
She looked at me with just a suggestion of a smile.
Most advertisements work through suggestion.
the power of suggestion
music that is suggestive of warm summer days
suggestive jokes
He leered suggestively.
On bad days I even felt suicidal.
suicidal tendencies
a suicidal leap into the swollen river
It would be suicidal to risk going out in this weather.
The new economic policies could prove suicidal for the party.
suicidally depressed
a business suit
a two-/three-piece suit (= of two/three pieces of clothing)
a suit of armour
The suits are called hearts, clubs, diamonds and spades.
to file/bring a suit against sb
a divorce suit
Choose a computer to suit your particular needs.
If we met at 2, would that suit you?
If you want to go by bus, that suits me fine.
He can be very helpful, but only when it suits him.
It suits me to start work at a later time.
Blue suits you. You should wear it more often.
I don't think this coat really suits me.
This hot weather doesn't suit me.
I choose my assignments to suit myself.
'I think I'll stay in this evening.' 'Suit yourself!'
He can suit his conversation to whoever he's with.
a suitable candidate
This programme is not suitable for children.
a suitable place for a picnic
I don't have anything suitable to wear for the party.
Would now be a suitable moment to discuss my report?
There is no doubt about her suitability for the job.
I am not really suitably dressed for a party.
suitably qualified candidates
He was suitably impressed when I told him I'd won.
to pack/unpack a suitcase
a hotel/private/honeymoon suite
a suite of rooms/offices
a bathroom/bedroom suite
(BrE) a three-piece suite with two armchairs and a sofa
Stravinsky's Firebird Suite
a suite of software development tools
She was ideally suited to the part of Eva Peron.
This diet is suited to anyone who wants to lose weight fast.
He is not really suited for a teaching career.
Jo and I are very well suited.
They were not suited to one another.
sober-suited city businessmen
men's suiting
a meal of ugali and sukuma wiki
He went off to sulk in his room.
Jo was in a sulk upstairs.
to have the sulks
Sarah had looked sulky all morning.
a sulky child
Bob looked pale and sullen.
She gave him a sullen glare.
sullen teenagers
copper sulphate
sulphurous fumes
the Sultan of Brunei
the Sultanate of Oman
a sultry summer afternoon
a sultry smile
a sultry singer
You will be fined the sum of £200.
a large sum of money
a six-figure sum
The sum of 7 and 12 is 19.
This is the sum of my achievements so far.
to do a sum in your head
I was good at sums at school.
If I've got my sums right, I should be able to afford the rent.
To sum up, there are three main ways of tackling the problem…
Can I just sum up what we've agreed so far?
Totally lazy—that just about sums him up.
She quickly summed up the situation and took control.
A photo, a book of poems and a gold ring—this was the sum total of his possessions.
The following is a summary of our conclusions.
a news summary
a two-page summary of a government report
In summary, this was a disappointing performance.
a summary financial statement
I made a summary report for the records.
summary justice/execution
a summary judgement
to be summarily dismissed/executed
He graduated summa cum laude from Harvard.
The results of the research are summarized at the end of the chapter.
What he said was a fair summation of the discussion.
The exhibition presents a summation of the artist's career.
We're going away in the summer.
It's very hot here in summer.
in the summer of 2009
late/early summer
this/next/last summer
a cool/hot/wet summer
It is now high summer (= the hottest part of summer).
a summer's day
a summer dress
two summers ago
It's beautiful here in (the) summertime.
summery weather
a light summery dress
We reached the summit at noon.
This path leads to the summit.
(figurative) the summit of his career
a summit in Moscow
a summit conference
He was summoned to appear before the magistrates.
In May 1688 he was urgently summoned to London.
She summoned the waiter.
to summon a meeting
to summon assistance/help/reinforcements
She was trying to summon up the courage to leave him.
I couldn't even summon the energy to get out of bed.
The book summoned up memories of my childhood.
to issue a summons against sb
The police have been unable to serve a summons on him.
She received a summons to appear in court the following week.
to obey a royal summons
She was summonsed for speeding.
He was summonsed to appear in court.
a sumo wrestler
a sumptuous meal
We dined in sumptuous surroundings.
the rising/setting sun
The sun was shining and birds were singing.
The sun was just setting.
the warmth of the afternoon sun
This room gets the sun in the mornings.
We sat in the sun.
The sun was blazing hot.
Too much sun ages the skin.
We did our best to keep out of the sun.
They've booked a holiday in the sun (= in a place where it is warm and the sun shines a lot).
Her face had obviously caught the sun (= become red or brown) on holiday.
I was driving westwards and I had the sun in my eyes (= the sun was shining in my eyes).
We talked about everything under the sun.
I get up with the sun.
We lay sunning ourselves on the deck.
sun-baked earth
sun-baked beaches
sun-drenched Mediterranean beaches
sun-dried tomatoes
sun-kissed bodies on the beach
Her shoulders were badly sunburned.
She looked fit and sunburned.
a watch, a diary and sundry other items
sunflower oil
a pair of sunglasses
a sunken ship
sunken treasure
a sunken garden
a sunless day
a ray/pool of sunlight
shafts of bright sunlight
The morning sunlight flooded into the room.
sunlit streets
a sunny day
sunny weather
The outlook for the weekend is hot and sunny.
a sunny garden
Italy was at its sunniest.
a sunny disposition
(figurative) the sunny side of life (= the more cheerful aspects of life)
We got up at sunrise.
the pinks and yellows of the sunrise
a high factor (= strong) sunscreen
Every evening at sunset the flag was lowered.
a spectacular sunset
There is a five-year sunset on the new tax.
sunset yellow
This is his sunset tour after fifty years as a singer.
a two-year sunset clause in the new law
The tax relief will sunset after a year.
a child's buggy fitted with a sunshade
the warm spring sunshine
She brought sunshine into our dull lives.
Hello, sunshine!
Look, sunshine, who do you think you're talking to?
Where have you been to get that suntan?
a suntanned face
a super meal
We had a super time in Italy.
She was super (= very kind) when I was having problems.
He's been super understanding.
super-rich
superhuman
superglue
superstructure
superimpose
superannuated rock stars
a superb player
The car's in superb condition.
His performance was absolutely superb.
You look superb.
a superbly illustrated book
She plays superbly.
The theory has been superseded by more recent research.
supercharged words, like 'terrorism' or 'fascism'
VW's supercharger for its 16-valve engine
a superficial analysis
The book shows only a superficial understanding of the historical context.
superficial differences/similarities
When you first meet her, she gives a superficial impression of warmth and friendliness.
a superficial injury
superficial burns
a superficial friendship
The guests engaged in superficial chatter.
She's so superficial!
superficial veins
a superficial deposit of acidic soils
superfine fibres
superfine powder
superfine cloth
She gave him a look that made words superfluous.
the health benefits of so-called superfoods
superhuman strength
It took an almost superhuman effort to contain his anger.
A diagram of the new road layout was superimposed on a map of the city.
She has tried to superimpose her own attitudes onto this ancient story.
The central issue concerns a footballer who had obtained a superinjunction preventing a girl from revealing secrets about an affair.
a park superintendent
the superintendent of schools in Dallas
Superintendent Livesey
vastly superior
superior intelligence
This model is technically superior to its competitors.
Liverpool were clearly the superior team.
The enemy won because of their superior numbers (= there were more of them).
my superior officer
superior status
a superior court of law
a superior manner
He always looks so superior.
superior apartments
your social superiors
He's my immediate superior (= the person directly above me).
I'm going to complain to your superiors.
Mother Superior
the superiority of this operating system
to have naval/air superiority (= more ships/planes than the enemy)
an air of superiority
a superlative performance
It's hard to find enough superlatives to describe this book.
supernatural powers
supernatural strength
a belief in the supernatural
They had superposed a picture of his head onto someone else's body.
supersize portions of fries
supersized clothing
We are being supersized into obesity (= made very fat) by the fast food industry.
TV ads encourage kids to supersize.
a supersonic aircraft
supersonic flight
the European superstate
According to superstition, breaking a mirror brings bad luck.
superstitious beliefs
I'm superstitious about the number 13.
a computer superstore
to supervise building work
She supervised the children playing near the pool.
Very young children should not be left to play without supervision.
The drug should only be used under medical supervision.
I have weekly supervisions (= meetings with a tutor or supervisor ).
I have a meeting with my supervisor about my research topic.
She has a supervisory role on the project.
a supine position
vitamin/dietary supplements (= vitamins and other foods eaten in addition to what you usually eat)
Industrial sponsorship is a supplement to government funding.
the Sunday colour supplements
the supplement to the Oxford English Dictionary
There is a £10 supplement for a single room.
Safety deposit boxes are available at a supplement.
a diet supplemented with vitamin pills
He supplements his income by giving private lessons.
The water supply is unsafe.
Supplies of food are almost exhausted.
We cannot guarantee adequate supplies of raw materials.
Books were in short supply (= there were not enough of them).
Our supplies were running out.
a transport plane carrying food and medical supplies for refugees
The UN has agreed to allow the supply of emergency aid.
A stroke can disrupt the supply of oxygen to the brain.
The electricity supply (= the system supplying electricity) had been cut off.
Foreign governments supplied arms to the rebels.
Foreign governments supplied the rebels with arms.
Local schools supply many of the volunteers.
foods supplying our daily vitamin needs
Getting a visa isn't as simple as you might suppose.
Prices will go up, I suppose.
(formal) This combination of qualities is generally supposed to be extremely rare.
(formal) She had supposed him (to be) very rich.
(formal) I had supposed his wife a younger woman.
I don't suppose for a minute that he'll agree (= I'm sure that he won't).
Why do you suppose he resigned?
There is no reason to suppose she's lying.
I suppose you think it's funny, do you?(= showing anger)
Suppose flights are fully booked on that day—which other day could we go?
Let us suppose, for example, that you are married with two children.
(formal) The theory supposes the existence of life on other planets.
(formal) Suppose him (to be) dead—what then?
I could take you in the car, I suppose (= but I don't really want to).
'Can I borrow the car?' 'I suppose so.' (= Yes, but I'm not happy about it.)
I don't suppose (that) I could have a look at your newspaper, could I?
Suppose we take a later train?
This is the opinion of the supposed experts.
When did this supposed accident happen?
The novel is supposedly based on a true story.
Supposing (that) you are wrong, what will you do then?
But supposing he sees us?
I'll do my homework after supper.
What's for supper?
We'll have an early supper tonight.
her slim, supple body
These exercises will help to keep you supple.
Moisturizing cream helps to keep your skin soft and supple.
supplementary information
She knelt in supplication.
a leading supplier of computers in the UK
to support a proposal
These measures are strongly supported by environmental groups.
If you raise it at the meeting, I'll support you.
The government supported the unions in their demand for a minimum wage.
an organization that supports people with AIDS
The company will support customers in Europe (= solve their problems with a product).
Several major companies are supporting the project.
Mark has two children to support from his first marriage.
He turned to crime to support his drug habit.
The atmosphere of Mars could not support life.
a platform supported by concrete pillars
Support the baby's head when you hold it.
The witness's story was not supported by the evidence.
Which team do you support?
They were supported by a local Liverpool band.
This digital audio player supports multiple formats.
There is strong public support for the change.
Can I rely on your support (= will you vote for me) in the election?
Only a few people spoke in support of the proposal.
Local businesses have provided financial support.
She has no visible means of support (= no work, income etc.).
Her family and friends have given her lots of support.
The supports under the bridge were starting to bend.
(figurative) When my father died, Jim was a real support.
I wrapped a bandage around my ankle to give it some support.
She held on to his arm for support.
a knee/back support
The statistics offer further support for our theory.
The support (act) has yet to be confirmed.
We offer free technical support.
a support group for single parents
a strong/loyal/staunch supporter
Labour supporters
I'm an Arsenal supporter.
The movie featured Robert Lindsay in a supporting role.
There was a wealth of supporting evidence.
a supporting wall
a supportive family
She was very supportive during my father's illness.
The police are working on the supposition that he was murdered.
The report is based entirely on supposition.
The rebellion was brutally suppressed.
The police were accused of suppressing vital evidence.
to suppress a smile
She was unable to suppress her anger.
drugs that suppress the appetite
an appetite suppressant
the suppression of a rebellion
the suppression of emotion
the body's pain suppressors
the battle for supremacy in the region
the dangerous notion of white supremacy (= that white races are better than others and should control them)
The company has established total supremacy over its rivals.
a white supremacist
the Supreme Commander of the armed forces
the supreme champion
It is an event in which she reigns supreme.
to make the supreme sacrifice (= die for what you believe in)
a supreme effort
She smiled with supreme confidence.
supremely confident
They managed it all supremely well.
the Microsoft supremo, Bill Gates
What a nice surprise!
a surprise attack
There are few surprises in this year's budget.
I have a surprise for you!
It comes as no surprise to learn that they broke their promises.
Her letter came as a complete surprise.
There are lots of surprises in store for visitors to the gallery.
Visitors to the gallery are in for a few surprises.
She looked up in surprise.
He gasped with surprise at her strength.
They couldn't conceal their surprise at seeing us together.
I got a surprise when I saw the bill.
Much to my surprise, I passed.
To everyone's surprise, the plan succeeded.
Imagine our surprise when he walked into the room!
A successful campaign should have an element of surprise.
One of the candidates was the manager's niece, and surprise, surprise, she got the job.
Surprise, surprise! Look who's here!
The police took the burglars by surprise.
His frankness took her by surprise.
It wouldn't surprise me if they got married soon.
It's always surprised me how popular he is.
It surprises me that you've never sung professionally.
Would it surprise you to know that I'm thinking of leaving?
The army attacked at night to surprise the rebels.
We arrived home early and surprised a burglar trying to break in.
a surprised look
She looked surprised when I told her.
I was surprised at how quickly she agreed.
I'm surprised at you, behaving like that in front of the kids.
They were surprised to find that he'd already left.
You shouldn't be surprised (that) he didn't come.
Don't be surprised if I pretend not to recognise you.
'Will she cancel the party?' ' I wouldn't be surprised.'
It's not surprising (that) they lost.
We had a surprising amount in common.
It's surprising what people will do for money.
She looked surprisingly well.
Surprisingly, he agreed straight away.
Not surprisingly on such a hot day, the beach was crowded.
Chief Supt Pauline Clark
We were surcharged £50 for travelling on a Friday.
'Is that John over there?' ' I'm not sure.'
You don't sound very sure.
I'm pretty sure (that) he'll agree.
Are you sure you don't mind?
I hope you are sure of your facts.
Ask me if you're not sure how to do it.
I'm not sure whether I should tell you this.
You're always sure of a warm welcome there.
England must win this game to be sure of qualifying for the World Cup.
The exhibition is sure to be popular.
It's a sure sign of economic recovery.
There's only one sure way to do it.
He is a sure bet for the presidential nominations (= certain to succeed).
We admired her sure touch at the keyboard.
She seems very sure of herself.
He is intelligent, to be sure, but he's also very lazy.
'Will you open the wine?' 'Sure, where is it?'
Did it hurt? Sure it hurt.
Boy, it sure is hot.
'Amazing view'. 'Sure is.'
That song sure as hell sounds familiar.
He sure looked unhappy.
'Thanks for the ride.' 'Sure—anytime.'
a sure-fire success
Surely we should do something about it?
It's surely only a matter of time before he is found, isn't it?
Surely you don't think I was responsible for this?
'They're getting married.' ' Surely not! '
They won't go, surely?
He knew that if help did not arrive soon they would surely die.
The rebel soldiers were forced to surrender.
The hijackers eventually surrendered themselves to the police.
He agreed to surrender all claims to the property.
They surrendered their guns to the police.
The defendant was released to await trial but had to surrender her passport.
He finally surrendered to his craving for drugs.
They demanded (an) unconditional surrender.
They accused the government of a surrender to business interests.
They insisted on the immediate surrender of all weapons.
an artist's sureness of touch
her sureness that she had done the right thing
She was granted bail with a surety of $500.
to act as surety for sb
the sound of surf breaking on the beach
Sydney, surf capital of the world (= where the sport of surfing is very popular)
I was surfing the Net looking for information on Indian music.
an uneven road surface
We'll need a flat surface to play the game on.
Teeth have a hard surface layer called enamel.
a broad leaf with a large surface area
the earth's surface
These plants float on the surface of the water.
a work surface
She's cleaned all the kitchen surfaces.
Rage bubbled just below the surface of his mind.
The ducks dived and surfaced again several metres away.
Doubts began to surface.
She surfaced again years later in London.
He finally surfaced around noon.
to go surfing
The gates opened and the crowd surged forward.
Flood waters surged into their homes.
Relief surged through her.
Share prices surged.
She felt a sudden surge of anger.
a surge of excitement
a surge in consumer spending
We are having trouble keeping up with the recent surge in demand.
After an initial surge of interest, there has been little call for our services.
a tidal surge
An electrical surge damaged the computer's disk drive.
a brain/heart, etc. surgeon
Surgeon General's warning: cigarette smoking causes cancer
major/minor surgery
to undergo heart surgery
He will require surgery on his left knee.
She had three surgeries over ten days.
morning/afternoon/evening surgery
surgery hours
Is there a surgery this evening?
a doctor's/dentist's surgery
a constituency surgery
surgical procedures
a surgical ward (= for patients having operations)
The lumps will need to be surgically removed.
a surly youth
From the looks on their faces, I surmised that they had had an argument.
This is pure surmise on my part.
She was well aware of the difficulties that had to be surmounted.
a high column surmounted by a statue
Tall trees surround the lake.
the membranes surrounding the brain
As a child I was surrounded by love and kindness.
The lake is surrounded with/by trees.
Police surrounded the building.
They've surrounded the building with police.
publicity surrounding the divorce
I like to surround myself with beautiful things.
He hopes one day to surpass the world record.
Its success has surpassed all expectations.
Her cooking was always good, but this time she had surpassed herself (= done better than her own high standards).
scenery of surpassing beauty
food surpluses
Wheat was in surplus that year.
a trade surplus of £400 million
The balance of payments was in surplus last year (= the value of exports was greater than the value of imports).
surplus cash
Surplus grain is being sold for export.
These items are surplus to requirements (= not needed).
a surrealist painter/painting
the surrealist Salvador Dali
a surrealistic painting
She sneaked a surreptitious glance at her watch.
She saw him as a sort of surrogate father.
Oxford and the surrounding area
to work in pleasant surroundings
The buildings have been designed to blend in with their surroundings.
The police are keeping the suspects under constant surveillance.
surveillance cameras/equipment
A recent survey showed 75% of those questioned were in favour of the plan.
The survey revealed that…
to conduct/carry out a survey
an aerial survey (= made by taking photographs from an aircraft)
a comprehensive survey of modern music
The next morning we surveyed the damage caused by the fire.
He surveyed himself in the mirror before going out.
This chapter briefly surveys the current state of European politics.
We surveyed 500 smokers and found that over three quarters would like to give up.
the surveyor of public works
a survivable air crash
the struggle/battle/fight for survival
His only chance of survival was a heart transplant.
Exporting is necessary for our economic survival.
The ceremony is a survival from pre-Christian times.
She was the last surviving member of the family.
Of the six people injured in the crash, only two survived.
(humorous) 'How are you these days?' 'Oh, surviving.'
Don't worry, it's only a scratch—you'll survive.
Some strange customs have survived from earlier times.
I can't survive on £40 a week (= it is not enough for my basic needs).
He survived as party leader until his second election defeat.
The company managed to survive the crisis.
Many birds didn't survive the severe winter.
Few buildings survived the war intact.
She survived her husband by ten years.
the sole/only survivor of the massacre
The plane crashed in an area of dense jungle. There were no survivors.
There are only a few survivors from the original team (= members who remain in it while others have been replaced).
She'll cope. She's one of life's great survivors (= sb who deals very well with difficult situations).
susceptibility to disease
It was all carried out without any consideration for the susceptibilities of the bereaved family.
a sushi bar
If you suspect a gas leak, do not strike a match or even turn on an electric light.
Suspecting nothing, he walked right into the trap.
As I had suspected all along, he was not a real policeman.
I began to suspect (that) they were trying to get rid of me.
It was suspected that the drugs had been brought into the country by boat.
She suspected him to be an impostor.
He resigned after being suspected of theft.
The drug is suspected of causing over 200 deaths.
Whom do the police suspect?
I suspected her motives in offering to help.
a suspected broken arm
suspected tax evasion
suspected terrorists
a murder suspect
He is the prime suspect in the case.
Some of the evidence they produced was highly suspect.
a suspect package (= one that may contain drugs, a bomb, etc.)
A lamp was suspended from the ceiling.
Her body was found suspended by a rope.
Production has been suspended while safety checks are carried out.
The constitution was suspended as the fighting grew worse.
In the theatre we willingly suspend disbelief (= temporarily believe that the characters, etc. are real).
The introduction of the new system has been suspended until next year.
to suspend judgement (= delay forming or expressing an opinion)
The police officer was suspended while the complaint was investigated.
a tale of mystery and suspense
Don't keep us in suspense. Tell us what happened!
I couldn't bear the suspense a moment longer.
suspension from school
The two players are appealing against their suspensions.
These events have led to the suspension of talks.
They drove away slowly to avoid arousing suspicion.
He was arrested on suspicion of murder.
I have a sneaking suspicion that she's not telling the truth.
I have a horrible suspicion that we've come to the wrong station.
Their offer was greeted with some suspicion.
His mouth quivered in the suspicion of a smile.
The whole family is currently under suspicion of her murder.
A number of doctors came under suspicion of unethical behaviour.
They became suspicious of his behaviour and contacted the police.
a suspicious look
You have a very suspicious mind (= you always think that people are behaving in an illegal or dishonest way).
Didn't you notice anything suspicious in his behaviour?
She died in suspicious circumstances.
Police are not treating the fire as suspicious.
It was all very suspicious.
I was suspicious of his motives.
Many were suspicious of reform.
The man looked at her suspiciously.
Let me know if you see anyone acting suspiciously.
She eyed the fish on her plate suspiciously.
I think I've got him sussed (= now I understand him).
If you want to succeed in business you have to suss out the competition.
He cheated on her for years, but she never sussed.
sustainable forest management
an environmentally sustainable society
sustainable economic growth
There's not much sustenance in a bowl of soup.
(figurative) Arguing would only give further sustenance to his allegations.
Elections are essential for the sustenance of parliamentary democracy.
SW and LW radio
SW Australia
to take a throat swab
She fell over and swore loudly.
Why did you let him swear at you like that?
He swore revenge on the man who had killed his father.
I swear (that) I'll never leave you.
She made him swear not to tell anyone.
She swore (that) she'd never seen him before.
I could have sworn (= I am sure) I heard the phone ring.
I swear to God I had nothing to do with it.
Witnesses were required to swear on the Bible.
Are you willing to stand up in court and swear that you don't recognize him?
Remember, you have sworn to tell the truth.
Barons had to swear an oath of allegiance to the king.
Everyone was sworn to secrecy about what had happened.
I swear by almighty God that I will tell the truth.
She swears by meditation as a way of relieving stress.
He was sworn in as president.
The new prime minister was sworn into office.
I decided to swear off burgers forever.
I think I put the keys back in the drawer, but I couldn't swear to it (= I'm not completely sure).
Always chew food well before swallowing it.
I had a sore throat and it hurt to swallow.
The pills should be swallowed whole.
She swallowed hard and told him the bad news.
I watched her walk down the road until she was swallowed by the darkness.
Large areas of countryside have been swallowed up by towns.
Most of my salary gets swallowed (up) by the rent and bills.
I found her excuse very hard to swallow.
He told her a pack of lies, but she swallowed it whole.
to swallow your doubts
You're going to have to swallow your pride and ask for your job back.
I was surprised that he just sat there and swallowed all their remarks.
Swami Vivekananda
tropical swamps
swampy ground
The department was swamped with job applications.
In summer visitors swamp the island.
The little boat was swamped by the waves.
They've gone swanning off to Paris for the weekend.
a swanky new hotel
I've finished this magazine. Can I swap with you?
I swapped my red scarf for her blue one.
Can we swap places? I can't see the screen.
We spent the evening in the pub swapping stories (= telling each other stories) about our travels.
I swapped him my CD for his posters.
I'll drive there and then we'll swap over on the way back.
I think I'll swap this sweater for one in another colour.
I'm going to swap you over. Mike will go first and Jon will go second.
Let's do a swap. You work Friday night and I'll do Saturday.
Most of my football stickers are swaps.
a swap meet for collectors of Star Trek memorabilia
a swarm of bees/locusts/flies
Tourists were swarming all over the island.
The capital city is swarming with police.
a swashbuckling tale of adventure on the high seas
the swashbuckling hero of Hollywood epics
The combine had cut a swathe around the edge of the field.
Development has affected vast swathes of our countryside.
The mountains rose above a swathe of thick cloud.
He was lying on the hospital bed, swathed in bandages.
The branches were swaying in the wind.
Vicky swayed and fell.
They danced rhythmically, swaying their hips to the music.
He's easily swayed.
She wasn't swayed by his good looks or his clever talk.
Rebel forces hold sway over much of the island.
He was quick to exploit those who fell under his sway.
I was shocked at the swearing.
the swearing-in of the new President
beads of sweat
She wiped the sweat from her face.
By the end of the match, the sweat was pouring off him.
I woke up in a sweat.
She completed the routine without even working up a sweat.
He breaks out in a sweat just at the thought of flying.
He started having night sweats.
(informal) Growing your own vegetables sounds like a lot of sweat.
(literary) She achieved success by the sweat of her brow (= by working very hard).
I hung around the house all day in my sweats.
to sweat heavily
He was sweating buckets (= a lot).
The cheese was beginning to sweat.
Are you still sweating over that report?
They really made me sweat during the interview.
sweaty feet
He felt all hot and sweaty.
It was sweaty work, under the hot sun.
to sweep the floor
The showroom had been emptied and swept clean.
She swept the crumbs into the wastebasket.
He swept the leaves up into a pile.
The little boat was swept out to sea.
She let herself be swept along by the crowd.
Rain swept in through the broken windows.
Strong winds regularly sweep the islands.
Without another word she swept out of the room.
(figurative) He swept into the lead with an almost perfect performance.
He rushed to greet her, sweeping his arms wide.
A wave of tiredness swept over her.
Memories came sweeping back.
Rumours of his resignation swept through the company.
the latest craze sweeping America
His eyes swept around the room.
Searchlights swept the sky.
Her dress swept the ground as she walked.
Her hair was swept back from her face.
The hotel gardens sweep down to the beach.
The Blue Jays have a chance to sweep the series.
New Jersey swept Detroit last season.
Obama swept to victory in 2008.
They were swept along by the force of their emotions.
All their advice was swept aside.
Any doubts had long since been swept away.
He swept her up into his arms.
Give the room a good sweep.
He indicated the door with a sweep of his arm.
the broad sweep of white cliffs around the bay
Her book covers the long sweep of the country's history.
The rescue helicopter made another sweep over the bay.
a World Series sweep
a road sweeper
a carpet sweeper
sweeping reforms/changes
Security forces were given sweeping powers to search homes.
a sweeping generalization/statement
a sweeping gesture (= with your hand or arm)
a sweeping staircase
a cup of hot sweet tea
sweet food
I had a craving for something sweet.
This wine is too sweet for me.
a sweet-smelling rose
The air was sweet with incense.
a sweet voice
the sweet air of a mountain village
Goodnight. Sweet dreams.
I can't tell you how sweet this victory is.
His sister's a sweet young thing.
You look sweet in this photograph.
We stayed in a sweet little hotel on the seafront.
She gave him her sweetest smile.
It was sweet of them to offer to help.
Free tickets? Sweet!
a packet of boiled sweets
a sweet shop
I haven't made a sweet today.
Would you like some more sweet?
Don't you worry, my sweet.
This series aims to hit a sweet spot between romantic comedy and thriller.
Chinese sweet-and-sour pork
I can't believe you let him sweet-talk you into working for him!
(BrE) tinned sweetcorn
artificial sweetener(s)
Do you want a drink, sweetheart?
They were childhood sweethearts.
He's a real sweetie.
She smiled sweetly at him.
a sweetly scented flower
Everything went sweetly and according to plan.
He headed the ball sweetly into the back of the net.
a smile of great sweetness
The air was filled with the sweetness of mimosa.
Her arm was beginning to swell up where the bee had stung her.
The sails swelled (out) in the wind.
The wind swelled (out) the sails.
Last year's profits were swelled by a fall in production costs.
We are looking for more volunteers to swell the ranks (= increase the number) of those already helping.
Membership has swelled to over 20 000.
The cheering swelled through the hall.
to swell with pride
The boat was caught in a heavy (= strong) swell.
the firm swell of her breasts
a growing swell of support
a swell of pride
We had a swell time.
Use ice to reduce the swelling.
The fall left her with a painful swelling above her eye.
Passengers sweltered in temperatures of over 90°F.
sweltering heat
swelteringly hot
She swerved sharply to avoid a cyclist.
The bus suddenly swerved into his path.
The ball swerved into the net.
swift action
The White House was swift to deny the rumours.
a swift current
a swift runner
She moved swiftly to the rescue.
They sat around swigging beer from bottles.
She took a swig of wine.
She swilled the glasses with clean water.
He swilled the juice around in his glass.
Water swilled around in the bottom of the boat.
He had a quick swill of wine.
I can't swim.
The boys swam across the lake.
They spent the day swimming and sunbathing.
Can you swim backstroke yet?
How long will it take her to swim the Channel?
I go swimming twice a week.
A shoal of fish swam past.
Ducks were swimming around on the river.
The main course was swimming in oil.
Her eyes were swimming with tears.
The pages swam before her eyes.
His head swam and he swayed dizzily.
Let's go for a swim.
a swim meet (= a swimming competition between teams)
swim trunks
Swimming is a good form of exercise.
a good/strong swimmer
They watched the swimmers splashing through the water.
a shallow pool for non-swimmers
an indoor/outdoor swimming pool
She trained five times a week at her local swimming pool.
a pair of swimming trunks
We hope everything will go swimmingly.
They swindled him out of hundreds of dollars.
They swindled hundreds of dollars out of him.
an insurance swindle
He's an arrogant little swine!
The car can be a swine to start.
a herd of swine
swine fever (= a disease of pigs)
His arms swung as he walked.
As he pushed her, she swung higher and higher (= while sitting on a swing).
A set of keys swung from her belt.
He sat on the stool, swinging his legs.
The gunshot sent monkeys swinging away through the trees.
He swung himself out of the car.
A line of cars swung out of the palace gates.
He swung his legs over the side of the bed.
The door swung open.
She swung the door open.
The bus swung sharply to the left.
He swung the camera around to face the opposite direction.
She swung at me with the iron bar.
He swung another punch in my direction.
The state has swung from Republican to Democrat.
His emotions swung between fear and curiosity.
The game could swing either way (= either side could win it).
I managed to swing them round to my point of view.
We're trying to swing it so that we can travel on the same flight.
Is there any chance of you swinging us a couple of tickets?
entrepreneurs who think big and swing for the fences
I'll swing by your house on the way home from work.
He took a wild swing at the ball.
the swing of her hips
He is liable to abrupt mood swings (= for example from being very happy to being very sad).
Voting showed a 10% swing to Labour.
The kids were playing on the swings.
I need to work on my swing.
a three-day campaign swing through California
swingeing cuts in benefits
swingeing tax increases
a swingeing attack on government policy
He swiped at the ball and missed.
Switch on the phone and swipe your finger across the screen to unlock it.
She took a swipe at him with her umbrella.
He used the interview to take a swipe at his critics.
Access to the building is by swipe card only.
The water swirled down the drain.
A long skirt swirled around her ankles.
swirling mists
He took a mouthful of water and swirled it around his mouth.
A large car swished past them and turned into the embassy gates.
The pony's tail swished.
The pony swished its tail.
She swished her racket aggressively through the air.
a swish restaurant
a light switch
That was in the days before electricity was available at the flick of a switch.
Which switch do I press to turn it off?
to throw a switch (= to move a large switch)
a switch of priorities
She made the switch from full-time to part-time work when her first child was born.
a policy switch
a riding switch
We're in the process of switching over to a new system of invoicing.
Press these two keys to switch between documents on screen.
When did you switch jobs?
The dates of the last two exams have been switched.
I see you've switched the furniture around (= changed its position).
Do you think she'll notice if I switch my glass with hers?
I can't work next weekend—will you switch with me?
Have you been able to switch your shift with anyone?
Can we switch our shifts around?
When I hear the word 'football' I switch off (= because I am not interested in it).
The only time he really switches off (= stops thinking about work, etc.) is when we're on vacation.
Please switch the lights off as you leave.
How do you switch this thing on?
a switchboard operator
Call the switchboard and ask for extension 410.
Hundreds of fans jammed the switchboard for over an hour.
We're trying to get people switched on to the benefits of healthy eating.
an organization for switched-on young people
People get really switched on by this music.
the switchover from analogue to digital TV
a swivel chair (= one on which the seat turns around without moving the base)
She swivelled the chair around to face them.
He swivelled around to look at her.
What a swizz!
swollen glands
Her eyes were red and swollen from crying.
He's used to having women swooning over him.
to go into a swoon
The aircraft swooped down over the buildings.
Large quantities of drugs were found during a police swoop on the star's New York home.
Cars and trucks swooshed past.
to draw/sheathe a sword (= to take it out of/put it into its cover)
a fine swordsman
a sworn statement
Make sure you swot up on the company before the interview.
his sybaritic lifestyle
a sycophantic review
syllabic stress
a word with two syllables
a two-syllable word
'Potato' is stressed on the second syllable.
a symbiotic relationship
White has always been a symbol of purity in Western cultures.
Mandela became a symbol of the anti-apartheid struggle.
What is the chemical symbol for copper?
A list of symbols used on the map is given in the index.
The dove is symbolic of peace.
The Channel Tunnel has enormous symbolic significance for a united Europe.
The new regulations are largely symbolic (= they will not have any real effect).
a symbolically significant gesture
The use of light and dark symbolizes good and evil.
He came to symbolize his country's struggle for independence.
the symbolist poet Rimbaud
the perfect symmetry of the garden design
the increasing symmetry between men's and women's jobs
a symmetrical pattern
a sympathetic listener
I did not feel at all sympathetic towards Kate.
I'm here if you need a sympathetic ear (= sb to talk to about your problems).
to be sympathetic to the party's aims
Russian newspapers are largely sympathetic to the president.
a sympathetic character in a novel
I don't find her a very sympathetic person.
to smile at sb sympathetically
We hope this application will be treated sympathetically (= it will be approved).
to express/feel sympathy for sb
I have no sympathy for Jan, it's all her own fault.
I wish he'd show me a little more sympathy.
Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to the victims of the war.
(formal) May we offer our deepest sympathies on the death of your wife.
The seamen went on strike in sympathy with (= to show their support for) the dockers.
Her sympathies lie with the anti-abortion lobby.
There was no personal sympathy between them.
I find it very hard to sympathize with him.
He has never really sympathized with the aims of Animal Rights activists.
communist sympathizers
Beethoven's Fifth Symphony
Mozart's symphonic works
the Boston Symphony Orchestra
flu symptoms
Look out for symptoms of depression.
Symptoms include a headache and sore throat.
a symptomatic infection
These disagreements are symptomatic of the tensions within the party.
the synaptic membranes
The live music isn't synced to the visuals.
How do I sync email across all my devices?
Bluetooth technology will enable a cell phone to sync with a car's stereo speaker.
The soundtrack did not synchronize with the action.
Let's synchronize our watches (= make them show exactly the same time).
You can use the technology to synchronize data between computers.
The phone lets you synchronize your calendar and contacts with your PC.
His column is syndicated throughout the world.
PMS or premenstrual syndrome
This syndrome is associated with frequent coughing.
With teenagers, be prepared for the 'Me, me, me!' syndrome (= they think of themselves first).
Wealth is not necessarily synonymous with happiness.
'Big' and 'large' are synonyms.
to be syntactically correct
the synthesis of art with everyday life
a synthesis of traditional and modern values
protein synthesis
the synthesis of penicillin
speech synthesis
a speech synthesizer
synthetic drugs/fabrics
synthetic dyes
cotton fabrics and synthetics
pears in syrup
I had my ears syringed.
a syrupy romantic novel
the British educational system
a new system for assessing personal tax bills
a system of government
a transport system
heating systems
a stereo system
a security system
You have to wait until the drugs have passed out of your system.
the male reproductive system
You can't beat the system (= you must accept it).
young people rebelling against the system
a systematic approach to solving the problem
a systematic attempt to destroy the organization
The prisoner was subjected to systematic torture.
The search was carried out systematically.
systemic weedkillers
'Tin' begins with (a) T/'T'.
Her new job suits her to a T.
The novel captures the feeling of the pre-war period to a T.
I saw it t'other day.
They were talking of this, that and t'other.
Ta-ta for now!
Insert tab A into slot 1 (= for example to make a model, box, etc.).
a bar tab
Can I put it on my tab?
The tab for the meeting could be $3 000.
a tab of Ecstasy
guitar tabs
He has been tabbed by many people as a future champion.
a Mormon tabernacle
The book contains lyrics and guitar tablatures for over 100 songs.
a kitchen table
A table for two, please (= in a restaurant).
I'd like to book a table for tonight (= in a restaurant).
to set the table (= to put the plates, knives, etc. on it for a meal)
(BrE also ) to lay the table
to clear the table (= take away the dirty plates, etc. at the end of a meal)
He questioned her next morning over the breakfast table (= during breakfast).
(BrE, formal) Children must learn to behave at table.
a billiard/snooker/pool table
He kept the whole table entertained with his jokes.
a table of contents (= a list of the main points or information in a book, usually at the front of the book)
Table 2 shows how prices and earnings have increased over the past 20 years.
If Arsenal win this game they'll go to the top of the table.
school performance league tables
Do you know your six times table?
What Hislop brought to the table was real commitment and energy.
They have tabled a motion for debate at the next Party Conference.
They voted to table the proposal until the following meeting.
the table d'hôte menu
The restaurant offers both table d'hôte and à la carte.
The procession included a tableau of the Battle of Hastings.
(figurative) She stood at the door observing the peaceful domestic tableau around the fire.
Add two tablespoons of water.
vitamin tablets
Take two tablets with water before meals.
water purification tablets
(figurative) We can be very flexible—our entry requirements are not set in tablets of stone (= they can be changed).
a tabletop machine (= that can be used on a table)
(BrE) a tabletop sale (= where goods for sale are displayed on tables)
The story made the front page in all the tabloids.
a serious paper in a new tabloid format
tabloid journalists
a tabloid newspaper
the tabloid press
an incest taboo
a taboo on working on a Sunday
to break/violate a taboo
Death is one of the great taboos in our culture.
The subject is still a taboo in our family.
in the days when sex was a taboo subject
tabular data
The results are presented in tabular form.
tacit approval/support/knowledge
By tacit agreement, the subject was never mentioned again.
a complete change of tack
It was a brave decision to change tack in the middle of the project.
When threats failed, she decided to try/take a different tack.
His thoughts wandered off on another tack.
They were sailing on (a) port/starboard tack (= with the wind coming from the left/right side).
a carpet tack
The carpet was tacked to the floor.
The poems were tacked on at the end of the book.
tacky souvenirs
The movie had a really tacky ending.
The government is determined to tackle inflation.
I tackled him about the money he owed me.
He was tackled just outside the penalty area.
He tackled a masked intruder at his home.
Settling the dispute required great tact and diplomacy.
She is not exactly known for her tact.
That wasn't a very tactful thing to say!
I tried to find a tactful way of telling her the truth.
a tactfully worded reply
I tactfully suggested he should see a doctor.
They tried all kinds of tactics to get us to go.
This was just the latest in a series of delaying tactics.
The manager discussed tactics with his team.
Confrontation is not always the best tactic.
It's time to try a change of tactic.
tactical planning
to have a tactical advantage
Telling your boss you were looking for a new job was a tactical error (= it was the wrong thing to do at that time).
a tactical decision
tactical weapons/missiles
He was given tactical command of the operation.
At the time, it was tactically the right thing to do.
The enemy was tactically superior.
tactile stimuli
visual and tactile communication
tactile fabric (= pleasant to touch)
tactile maps (= that you can touch and feel)
He's a very tactile man (= he enjoys touching people).
a tactless remark
It was tactless of you to comment on his hair!
Could you turn the sound down just a tad?
It's a tad too expensive for me.
He put name tags on all his shirts.
a gift tag (= tied to a present)
The police use electronic tags to monitor the whereabouts of young offenders on probation.
They are finally ready to drop the tag 'the new Beatles'.
The 'lucky' tag stuck for years.
the Latin tag 'Si vis pacem, para bellum.' (= if you want peace, prepare for war)
Each animal was tagged with a number for identification.
The country no longer wanted to be tagged as a Third World nation.
If you upload a photo, people can tag the people in it.
The site lets you tag and share photographs.
An apology was tagged onto the end of the letter.
We have a tag cloud on the blogs homepage to help you with searching through our blogs by key word.
The show used a tag team of interviewers.
It can take hours of time and thousands of dollars to fix the graffiti that one tagger can cause.
I'm older than her.
There was more whisky in it than soda.
He loves me more than you do.
It was much better than I'd expected.
You should know better than to behave like that.
I'd rather email than phone, if that's OK by you.
It never takes more than an hour.
It's less than a mile to the beach.
There were fewer than twenty people there.
No sooner had I sat down than there was a loud knock on the door.
Hardly had we arrived than the problems started.
the Siberian taiga
The dog ran up, wagging its tail.
The male has beautiful tail feathers.
a white-tailed eagle
the tail wing
the tail of a kite
the tail of the procession
The men all wore top hat and tails.
The police have put a tail on him.
Manx cats are tailless.
A private detective had been tailing them for several weeks.
The number of tourists tails off in October.
'But why…?' Her voice tailed away.
the tail end of the queue
Special programmes of study are tailored to the needs of specific groups.
Most travel agents are prepared to tailor travel arrangements to meet individual requirements.
a tailor-made course of study
a trip tailor-made just for you
She seems tailor-made for the job (= perfectly suited for it).
a tailor-made suit
a tailored jacket
Clever tailoring can flatter your figure.
Following the announcement, share prices went into a tailspin.
The administration was tainted with scandal.
tainted drinking water
to be free from the taint of corruption
I forgot to take my bag with me when I got off the bus.
Take this to the bank for me, would you?
Shall I take a gift to my host family?
Shall I take my host family a gift?
A boy took us to our room.
I'm taking the kids swimming later.
The boys were taken to see their grandparents most weekends.
Her energy and talent took her to the top of her profession.
The new loan takes the total debt to $100 000.
I'd like to take my argument a stage further.
He believes he has the skills to take the club forward.
We'll take the matter forward at our next meeting (= discuss it further).
I passed him the rope and he took it.
Free newspapers: please take one.
Can you take (= hold) the baby for a moment?
He took her hand/took her by the hand (= held her hand, for example to lead her somewhere).
She took the child in her arms and kissed him.
Will you take your books off the table?
The sign must be taken down.
He took some keys out of his pocket.
My name had been taken off the list.
She was playing with a knife, so I took it away from her.
(informal) She was playing with a knife, so I took it off her.
(figurative) The new sports centre will take the pressure off the old one.
Someone has taken my scarf.
Did the burglars take anything valuable?
(figurative) The storms took the lives of 50 people.
The scientists are taking water samples from the river.
The machine takes its name from its inventor.
Part of her article is taken straight (= copied) out of my book.
The rebels succeeded in taking the town.
The state has taken control of the company.
The rebels took him prisoner.
He was taken prisoner by the rebels.
I'll take the grey jacket.
We took a room at the hotel for two nights.
We take the 'Express'.
Do you take sugar in your coffee?
The doctor has given me some medicine to take for my cough.
He started taking drugs (= illegal drugs) at college.
Take 5 from 12 and you're left with 7.
(informal) 80 take away 5 is 75.
The police officer took my name and address.
Did you take notes in the class?
to take a photograph/picture/snapshot of sb/sth
to have your picture/photo taken
to take sb's temperature
I need to have my blood pressure taken.
Are these seats taken?
Come in; take a seat.
Lots of couples have problems in the first year of marriage. Take Ann and Paul.
If they offer me the job, I'll take it.
She was accused of taking bribes.
Does the hotel take credit cards?
I'll take the call in my office.
Why should I take the blame for somebody else's mistakes?
If you take my advice you'll have nothing more to do with him.
Will you take $10 for the book (= will you sell it for $10)?
The store took (= sold goods worth) $100 000 last week.
The school doesn't take boys (= only has girls).
The dentist can't take any new patients.
The school took the full force of the explosion.
Can the ropes take the strain (= not break)?
The team took a terrible beating.
She can't take criticism.
I don't think I can take much more of this heat.
I find his attitude a little hard to take.
He took the criticism surprisingly well.
These threats are not to be taken lightly.
I wish you'd take me seriously.
She took it in the spirit in which it was intended.
She took what he said as a compliment.
How am I supposed to take that remark?
Taken overall, the project was a success.
What did you take his comments to mean?
Even the experts took the painting for a genuine Van Gogh.
Of course I didn't do it! What do you take me for (= what sort of person do you think I am)?
I took the man with him to be his father.
My parents always took an interest in my hobbies.
Don't take offence (= be offended) at what I said.
I took a dislike to him.
He takes the view that children are responsible for their own actions.
The government is taking action to combat drug abuse.
We need to take a different approach to the problem.
to take a step/walk/stroll
to take a bath/shower/wash
to take a look/glance
to take a bite/drink/sip
to take a deep breath
to take a break/rest
(BrE) No decision will be taken on the matter until next week.
Our next class will take the form of a debate.
The new President takes office in January.
The journey to the airport takes about half an hour.
It takes about half an hour to get to the airport.
That cut is taking a long time to heal.
It took her three hours to repair her bike.
It'll take her time to recover from the illness.
It'll take time (= take a long time) for her to recover from the illness.
I need a shower—I won't take long.
It only takes one careless driver to cause an accident.
It doesn't take much to make her angry.
(informal) He didn't take much persuading (= he was easily persuaded).
All new cars take unleaded petrol.
What size shoes do you take?
The bus can take 60 passengers.
The tank takes 50 litres.
The head teacher usually takes us for French.
She is planning to take a computer course.
How many subjects are you taking this year?
When did you take your driving test?
to take the bus/plane/train
to take a cab
Take the second road on the right.
It's more interesting to take the coast road.
The horse took the first fence well.
He takes bends much too fast.
to take a penalty/free kick/corner
to take a vote/poll/survey
The skin graft failed to take.
The verb 'rely' takes the preposition 'on'.
She takes life as it comes.
I take it you won't be coming to the party?
Take it from me—he'll be a millionaire before he's 30.
Taking care of small children really takes it out of you.
Your daughter doesn't take after you at all.
I was afraid that if I started running the man would take after me.
I was given some pills to take away the pain.
Two burgers to take away, please.
I don't want to take away from his achievements, but he couldn't have done it without my help.
The smell of the sea took him back to his childhood.
OK, I take it all back!
to take down a tent
to take down your trousers/pants
Reporters took down every word of his speech.
to take in lodgers
He was homeless, so we took him in.
Don't be taken in by his charm—he's ruthless.
Fish take in oxygen through their gills.
The tour takes in six European capitals.
I generally take in a show when I'm in New York.
He took in every detail of her appearance.
Halfway through the chapter I realized I hadn't taken anything in.
The plane took off an hour late.
When he saw me coming he took off in the opposite direction.
The new magazine has really taken off.
He was taken off after twenty minutes.
to take off your coat
He took off my wet boots and made me sit by the fire.
I've decided to take a few days off next week.
The show was taken off because of poor audience figures.
The hairdresser asked me how much she should take off.
The explosion nearly took his arm off.
The officer leading the investigation has been taken off the case.
After three days she was taken off the ventilator.
The manager took $10 off the bill.
That experience took ten years off my life (= made me feel ten years older).
The slimming pills were taken off the market.
to take on new staff
She was taken on as a trainee.
to take somebody on at tennis
The rebels took on the entire Roman army.
The chameleon can take on the colours of its background.
His voice took on a more serious tone.
I can't take on any extra work.
We're not taking on any new clients at present.
The bus stopped to take on more passengers.
The ship took on more fuel at Freetown.
They took out two enemy bombers.
How many teeth did the dentist take out?
to take out an insurance policy/a mortgage/a loan
to take out an ad in a newspaper
The police have taken out a summons against the driver of the car.
The fine will be taken out of your wages.
OK, so you had a bad day. Don't take it out on me.
She tended to take her frustrations out on her family.
Try not to let negative thoughts take over.
It has been suggested that mammals took over from dinosaurs 65 million years ago.
The army is threatening to take over if civil unrest continues.
CBS Records was taken over by Sony.
The director took us through the play scene by scene.
The rebels took to the hills.
I've taken to waking up very early.
She took to tennis as if she'd been playing all her life.
I took to my new boss immediately.
He hasn't taken to his new school.
The band's new album takes up where their last one left off.
The table takes up too much room.
I won't take up any more of your time.
This skirt needs taking up.
They've taken up golf.
She has taken up (= started to learn to play) the oboe.
He takes up his duties next week.
to take up the chorus
Their protests were later taken up by other groups.
She took up the story where Tim had left off.
I'd like to take up the point you raised earlier.
I took up my position by the door.
to take up a challenge
She took up his offer of a drink.
I must take you up on that point.
Thanks for the invitation—we'll take you up on it some time.
They decided to take the matter up with their MP.
We managed to get it right in just two takes.
How much is my share of the take?
What's his take on the plan?
a new take on the Romeo and Juliet story (= a way of presenting it)
Sometimes you have to take one for the team.
OK, everybody, let's take it from the top.
She didn't even take the trouble to find out how to spell my name.
She is taking time out from her music career for a year.
They take a lot of trouble to find the right person for the right job.
The male and female birds take turns in sitting on the eggs.
We take it in turns to do the housework.
(figurative) Her imagination took wing.
There's no rush—take your time.
You certainly took your time getting here!
The plane is ready for take-off.
take-off speed
(figurative) The local economy is poised for take-off.
a low take-up of government benefits
Let's have a takeaway tonight.
a takeover bid for the company
They won't find many takers for the house at that price.
drug takers
It is better to be a giver than a taker.
The box office takings are up on last week.
Dickens' 'A Tale of Two Cities'
a fairy/moral/romantic, etc. tale
I love listening to his tales of life at sea.
I've heard tales of people seeing ghosts in that house.
The team's tale of woe continued on Saturday (= they lost another match).
Her experiences provide a cautionary tale (= a warning) for us all.
Stop talking and listen!
Who were you talking to just now?
We looked around the school and talked with the principal.
Ann and Joe aren't talking to each other right now (= they refuse to speak to each other because they have argued).
When they get together, all they talk about is football.
What are you talking about? (= used when you are surprised, annoyed and/or worried by sth that sb has just said)
I don't know what you're talking about (= used to say that you did not do sth that sb has accused you of).
Mary is talking of looking for another job.
We talked ourselves hoarse, catching up on all the news.
This situation can't go on. We need to talk.
The two sides in the dispute say they are ready to talk.
Talk to your doctor if you're still worried.
to talk business
The baby is just starting to talk.
We couldn't understand them because they were talking in Chinese.
Are they talking Swedish or Danish?
She talks a lot of sense.
(BrE) You're talking rubbish!
See if you can talk some sense into him (= persuade him to be sensible).
We're talking £500 for three hours' work.
Don't phone me at work— people will talk.
The police questioned him but he refused to talk.
Talk about mean! She didn't even buy me a card.
Talking of Sue, I met her new boyfriend last week.
You can talk the talk, but can you walk the walk?(= can you act in a way that matches your words?)
You shouldn't talk down your own achievements.
I didn't want to move abroad but Bill talked me into it.
She tried to talk him out of leaving.
You'll find it helpful to talk things over with a friend.
We finally managed to talk them round to our way of thinking.
Can you talk me through the various investment options?
I had to have a heart-to-heart talk with her.
arms/pay/peace, etc. talks
to hold talks
Talks between management and workers broke down over the issue of holiday pay.
A further round of talks will be needed if the dispute is to be resolved.
She gave a talk on her visit to China.
It's just talk. He'd never carry out his threats.
Don't pay any attention to her—she's all talk.
There was talk in Washington of sending in troops.
She dismissed the stories of her resignation as newspaper talk.
business talk
She said it was just girl talk that a man wouldn't understand.
The book teaches you how to understand Spanish street talk (= slang).
It was tough talk, coming from a man who had begun the year in a hospital bed.
Overnight, she became the talk of the town (= very famous).
to have great artistic talent
a man of many talents
She showed considerable talent for getting what she wanted.
a talent competition/contest (= in which people perform, to show how well they can sing, dance, etc.)
There is a wealth of young talent in British theatre.
He is a great talent.
He likes to spend his time chatting up the local talent.
a talented player
a talk-show host
He's not very talkative, is he?
She was in a talkative mood.
a brilliant talker
She's a (great) talker (= she talks a lot).
He's more a talker than a doer (= he talks instead of doing things).
The film is brilliantly animated, but it's overly talky and suffers from painfully slow pacing.
The election broadcast consisted largely of talking heads.
The judge's decision became a legal talking point.
to give sb a good talking-to
She's tall and thin.
tall chimneys
the tallest building in the world
a tall glass of iced tea
How tall are you?
He's six feet tall and weighs 200 pounds.
He hopes to improve on his tally of three goals in the past nine games.
Keep a tally of how much you spend while you're away.
Her report of what happened tallied exactly with the story of another witness.
You'll find life here pretty tame after New York.
I have a tame doctor who'll always give me a sick note when I want a day off.
Lions can never be completely tamed.
She made strenuous efforts to tame her anger.
a lion-tamer
Someone had obviously tampered with the brakes of my car.
a tamper-proof identity card
to get a tan
tandoori chicken
a tandoori restaurant
the tang of lemons
a refreshing tangy lemon flavour
a tangential argument
a tangerine evening gown
tangible benefits/improvements/results, etc.
tangible assets (= a company's buildings, machinery, etc.)
The tension between them was almost tangible.
a tangle of branches
Her hair was a mass of tangles.
His financial affairs are in a tangle.
She had tangled up the sheets on the bed as she lay tossing and turning.
tangled hair/bed clothes
tangled financial affairs
a hot water tank
a fuel tank
a fish tank (= for keeping fish in)
We drove there and back on one tank of petrol.
The company's shares tanked on Wall Street.
She was accused of tanking the match.
He tanked up and drove off.
We stopped to tank the car up.
an oil tanker
to make an announcement over the Tannoy
The tantalizing aroma of fresh coffee wafted towards them.
a tantalizing glimpse of the future
The branch was tantalizingly out of reach.
If he resigned it would be tantamount to admitting that he was guilty.
to have/throw a tantrum
Children often have temper tantrums at the age of two or thereabouts.
Someone tapped at the door.
He was busy tapping away at his computer.
Ralph tapped me on the shoulder.
Tap the icon to open the app.
He kept tapping his fingers on the table.
The music set everyone's feet tapping.
We need to tap the expertise of the people we already have.
The movie seems to tap into a general sentimentality about animals.
He was convinced his phone was being tapped.
Richards has been tapped to replace the retiring chairperson.
Tap in your PIN number.
She tapped out the beat on the table.
I tapped out a text message to Mandy.
bath taps
the hot/cold tap (= the tap that hot/cold water comes out of)
Turn the tap on/off.
Don't leave the tap running.
the sound of a dripping tap
a gas tap
beer taps
a tap at/on the door
He felt a tap on his shoulder and turned round.
a phone tap
Is the tap water safe to drink?
The pass left Tevez with a simple tap-in.
a blank tape (= a tape that has nothing recorded on it)
I lent her my Bob Marley tapes.
Police seized various books and tapes.
adhesive/sticky tape
The papers were in a pile, tied together with a tape.
the finishing tape
Private conversations between the two had been taped and sent to a newspaper.
Put it in a box and tape it up securely.
Someone had taped a message on the door.
That's a nasty cut—come on, we'll get it all taped up.
a tape recording of the interview
a tape-recorded interview
The tail tapered to a rounded tip.
The pots are wide at the base and tapered at the top.
The number of applicants for teaching posts has tapered off.
They are gradually tapering off production of the older models.
medieval tapestries
tapestry cushions
crafts such as embroidery and tapestry
tapestried walls
a tarred road
The law is often tardy in reacting to changing attitudes.
people who are tardy in paying their bills
(NAmE) to be tardy for school
business goals and targets
attainment targets
to meet/achieve a target
a target date of April 2017
The university will reach its target of 5 000 students next September.
The new sports complex is on target to open in June.
a target area/audience/group (= the particular area, audience, etc. that a product, programme, etc. is aimed at)
They bombed military and civilian targets.
Doors and windows are an easy target for burglars.
It's a prime target (= an obvious target) for terrorist attacks.
(figurative) He's become the target of a lot of criticism recently.
to aim at a target
to hit/miss the target
target practice
strategically targeted attacks
Emails are scanned for keywords in order to deliver targeted advertising.
The missiles were mainly targeted at the United States.
The company has been targeted by animal rights groups for its use of dogs in drugs trials.
The campaign is clearly targeted at the young.
a new magazine that targets single men
mobile-phone tariffs
tarmacked roads
Three planes were standing on the tarmac, waiting to take off.
The mirrors had tarnished with age.
The silver candlesticks were tarnished and dusty.
He hopes to improve the newspaper's somewhat tarnished public image.
a strawberry tart
tart apples
a tart reply
'Too late!' said my mother tartly.
a tartan rug
the MacLeod tartan
to perform/carry out/complete/undertake a task
a daunting/an impossible/a formidable/an unenviable, etc. task
a thankless task (= an unpleasant one that nobody wants to do and nobody thanks you for doing)
Our first task is to set up a communications system.
Detectives are now faced with the task of identifying the body.
Getting hold of this information was no easy task (= was difficult).
Our first task will be to set up a communications system.
They undertook a fact-finding mission in the region.
household chores
task-based learning
She was a hard taskmaster.
The bedroom was tastefully furnished.
tasteless soup
tasteless jokes
a tasty meal
something tasty to eat
a wine tasting
His arms were covered in tattoos.
He had a heart tattooed on his shoulder.
His shoulder was tattooed with a heart.
tattered clothes
(figurative) tattered relationships
(figurative) the hotel's tattered reputation
a tatty carpet
The other kids continually taunted him about his size.
Black players often had to endure racist taunts.
Keep the rope taut.
Her face was taut and pale.
His body was solid and taut.
tawdry jewellery
a tawdry affair
the lion's tawny mane
to raise/cut taxes
tax increases/cuts
changes in tax rates
to pay over £1 000 in tax
profits before/after tax
a tax on cigarettes
Any interest payments are taxed as part of your income.
His declared aim was to tax the rich.
The car is taxed until July.
The questions did not tax me.
The problem is currently taxing the brains of the nation's experts (= making them think very hard).
I taxed him with avoiding his responsibility as a parent.
There are now only two tax brackets—22% and 40%.
a tax-deferred savings plan
tax-exempt savings
a tax-free allowance
taxable income
plant taxonomy
to reduce taxation
changes in the taxation structure
a taxi driver/ride
We'd better take a taxi.
I came home by taxi.
to order/hail/call a taxi
a taxing job
He had been cheating the taxman for years.
party with live band (TBA)
The four-day course will run from March 8–11 (TBC).
Release date and pricing are still TBD.
I don't know anything about it, TBH.
Add 3 tbsp sugar.
a cup/mug/pot of tea
lemon/iced tea
Would you like tea or coffee?
Do you take sugar in your tea?
Two teas, please.
camomile/mint/herb, etc. tea
You can have your tea as soon as you come home from school.
toasted teacakes
She teaches at our local school.
He taught for several years before becoming a writer.
I'll be teaching history and sociology next term.
(NAmE) to teach school (= teach in a school)
He teaches English to advanced students.
He teaches them English.
John teaches French at the local school.
She taught me how to change a tyre.
Our priority is to educate people about the dangers of drugs.
Members of staff should be instructed in the use of fire equipment.
She's a trained midwife.
He's training the British Olympic swimming team.
He's the best football player I've ever coached.
(BrE) She coaches some of the local children in maths.
(NAmE) She tutors some of the local children in math.
school/college teachers
a swimming/science instructor
a horse trainer
Do you have a personal trainer?
a football coach
tutors working with migrant children
Could you teach me to do that?
My father taught me how to ride a bike.
She taught me to be less critical of other people.
My parents taught me that honesty was always the best policy.
Our experience as refugees taught us many valuable lessons.
Lost all your money? That'll teach you to gamble.
I'll teach you to call (= punish you for calling) me a liar!
The accident taught me a lesson I'll never forget.
a history/science, etc. teacher
primary school teachers
There is a growing need for qualified teachers of Business English.
experienced teachers and teacher trainers
She wants to go into teaching (= make it a career).
the teaching profession
the teachings of Lenin
views that go against traditional Christian teaching
a football/baseball, etc. team
a team event (= one played by groups of people rather than individual players)
(BrE) Whose team are you in?
(NAmE) Whose team are you on?
The team is/are not playing very well this season.
the sales team
a team leader/member
A team of experts has/have been called in to investigate.
He was teamed with his brother in the doubles.
She stressed the importance of good teamwork.
effective teamworking and problem-solving
teamworking skills
effective teamworking and problem-solving
I tore my jeans on the fence.
I tore a hole in my jeans.
He tore the letter in two.
a torn handkerchief
Careful—the fabric tears very easily.
I tore the package open.
The blast tore a hole in the wall.
The storm nearly tore the roof off.
I tore another sheet from the pad.
He tore his clothes off (= took them off quickly and carelessly) and dived into the lake.
She tore herself from his grasp.
He tore himself free.
a torn ligament
He tore off down the street.
A truck tore past the gates.
to bring peace to a strife-torn country
a strike-torn industry
We tore the other team apart in the second half.
The critics tore his last movie to shreds.
It tears me apart to think I might have hurt her feelings.
The dogs tore the fox apart.
Racial strife is tearing our country apart.
They tore the room apart, looking for money.
He tore at the meat with his bare hands.
Dinner's ready, if you can tear yourself away from the TV.
She was unable to tear her eyes away from him (= could not stop looking at him).
They tore into their food as if they were starving.
She tore up all the letters he had sent her.
(figurative) He accused the leader of tearing up the party's manifesto (= of ignoring it).
This sheet has a tear in it.
The insurance policy does not cover damage caused by normal wear and tear.
A tear rolled down his face.
She left the room in tears (= crying).
He suddenly burst into tears (= began to cry).
As he listened to the music, his eyes filled with tears.
Their story will move you to tears (= make you cry).
They reduced her to tears (= made her cry, especially by being cruel or unkind).
Ann wiped a tear from her eye.
The memory brought a tear to her eye (= made her cry).
Most of the audience was on the verge of tears.
I was close to tears as I told them the news.
Desperately she fought back the tears (= tried not to cry).
to shed tears of happiness
tears of pain, joy, etc.
The tears welled up in his eyes.
teary eyes
a teary smile/goodbye
a tear-off slip
She suddenly became very tearful.
a tearful farewell
Don't get upset—I was only teasing.
I used to get teased about my name.
Spring is here and we have already been teased with a glimpse of summer.
There are tempting menus to tease the taste buds.
to tease wool into strands
The teacher helped them tease out the meaning of the poem.
Add two teaspoons of salt.
tech companies
We offer free technical support for those buying our software.
a technical education
technical drawing (= especially taught as a school subject)
Skaters score extra points for technical complexity.
The article is full of technical terms.
The guide is too technical for a non-specialist.
Their lawyers spent days arguing over technical details.
laboratory technicians
All our software licences include technical support.
I called tech support and they fixed it.
She was released on a technicality (= because of a small detail in the law).
Technically (speaking), the two countries are still at war.
It is still technically possible for them to win (= but it seems unlikely).
As a musician, she is technically accomplished.
a technically advanced society
In those days recording sound was not technically possible.
The rooms were painted in glorious technicolour.
The artist combines different techniques in the same painting.
marketing techniques
Her technique has improved a lot over the past season.
technophobe (= a person who is afraid of technology)
science and technology
recent advances in medical technology
to make use of the most modern technologies
The company has invested in the latest technology.
technological advances
technological change
a major technological breakthrough
technologically advanced
We had to listen to the tedious details of his operation.
She longed for something to relieve the tedium of everyday life.
to drive off from the first tee
a tee shot
The rain was teeming down.
It was teeming with rain.
The streets were teeming with tourists.
a river teeming with fish
teeming insects
the teeming streets of the city
teenage girls/boys
teenage rebellion
teen magazines
They have two teenaged daughters.
a magazine aimed at teenagers
teeny magazines
She began writing poetry in her teens.
to be in your early/late teens
She teetered after him in her high-heeled shoes.
He's strictly teetotal.
The Teflon Prime Minister has survived another crisis.
Telcos were struggling to make money from broadband services.
telepathy
telescopic
teletext
telesales
The event will be telecast simultaneously to nearly 150 cities.
technological developments in telecommunications
the telecommunications industry
a telecommunication company
You will need to arrange a telegraphic transfer from your bank to ours.
Data from these instruments is telemetered to the laboratory.
Equipment on the space station is teleoperated from earth.
telepathic communication
How do I know what he's thinking? I'm not telepathic!
The telephone rang and Pat answered it.
You can reserve seats over the telephone.
I need to make a telephone call.
telephone lines/networks/services
Please write or telephone for details.
He telephoned to say he'd be late.
You can telephone your order 24 hours a day.
I was about to telephone the police.
to look up a number in the telephone directory
The search party was teleported down to the planet's surface.
to look at the stars through a telescope
Three episodes have been telescoped into a single programme.
a rifle with a telescopic sight
a telescopic aerial
See if the results are on teletext.
a televised debate
to televise a novel
The speech will be televised live.
a colour television
a widescreen television
a plasma screen television
to turn the television on/off
We don't do much in the evenings except watch television.
satellite/terrestrial/cable/digital television
the television news
a television documentary
a television company/presenter
I'd like to work in television (= for a television company).
a major televisual event
He told the news to everybody he saw.
He told everybody he saw the news.
Did she tell you her name?
What did I tell you?(= you should have listened to my advice)
Why wasn't I told about the accident?
They've told us (that) they're not coming.
I kept telling myself (that) everything was OK.
Are you telling me you didn't have any help with this?(= I don't believe what you have said)
Tell me where you live.
'I'm ready to go now,' he told her.
The advertisement told us very little about the product.
This gauge tells you how much fuel you have left.
The sound of his breathing told her (that) he was asleep.
to tell stories/jokes/lies
Are you sure you're telling the truth?
I can't tell you how happy I am.
Promise you won't tell.
'Who are you going out with tonight?' ' That would be telling!' (= it's a secret)
There was a sign telling motorists to slow down.
I kept telling myself to keep calm.
Do what I tell you.
Children must do as they're told.
Don't tell me what to do!
The doctor told me (that) I should eat less fat.
I think he's happy. It's hard to tell.
As far as I can tell, she's enjoying the course.
I could tell (that) he was angry from his expression.
'That's not an original.' 'How can you tell?'
The only way to tell if you like something is by trying it.
It was hard to tell the difference between the two versions.
Can you tell Tom from his twin brother?
It's difficult to tell them apart.
The kittens look exactly alike—how can you tell which is which?
The strain was beginning to tell on the rescue team.
Tell me, have you had lunch yet?
'I get so annoyed with Steve!' 'Tell me about it. He drives me crazy.'
She's only five—she hasn't learnt to tell the time yet.
There's no telling how they'll react.
To tell the truth, I fell asleep in the middle of her talk.
Her lack of experience told against her.
notices telling of the proposed job cuts
I told the boys off for making so much noise.
Did you get told off?
Promise not to tell on me!
a tell-all book/memoir/autobiography
automatic teller machines
a foul-mouthed teller of lies
He spends most evenings just sitting in front of the telly.
daytime telly
Is there anything good on telly?
I don't want to watch telly.
a telling argument
The number of homeless people is a telling comment on the state of society.
telltale clues/marks/signs/sounds
The telltale smell of cigarettes told her that he had been in the room.
He had the temerity to call me a liar!
I've been temping for an employment agency.
max temp 17°C
to have an artistic temperament
a horse with an excellent temperament
She's a dreamer and a romantic by temperament.
an actor given to displays of temperament
You never know what to expect with her. She's so temperamental.
(figurative) The printer's being temperamental this morning.
They are firm friends in spite of temperamental differences.
I'm temperamentally unsuited to this job.
high/low temperatures
a fall/drop in temperature
a rise in temperature
The temperature has risen (by) five degrees.
Heat the oven to a temperature of 200°C (= degrees centigrade ).
Some places have had temperatures in the 40s (= over 40° centigrade ).
to take sb's temperature (= measure the temperature of sb's body using a special instrument)
(BrE) Does he have a temperature (= is it higher than normal, because of illness)?
She's running a temperature (= it is higher than normal).
He's in bed with a temperature of 40°.
a tempestuous relationship
tempestuous seas
a slow/fast tempo
It's a difficult piece, with numerous changes of tempo.
the increasing tempo of life in Western society
If you need to write a lot of similar letters, set up a template on your computer.
the Temple of Diana at Ephesus
a Buddhist/Hindu/Sikh temple
(NAmE) to go to temple (= to a service in a synagogue, where Jews worship)
He had black hair, greying at the temples.
Although spiritual leader of millions of people, the Pope has no temporal power.
a universe which has spatial and temporal dimensions
the right temporal lobe of the brain
temporary relief from pain
I'm looking for some temporary work.
They had to move into temporary accommodation.
a temporary measure/solution/arrangement
More than half the staff are temporary.
We regret this service is temporarily unavailable.
I was tempted by the dessert menu.
Don't tempt thieves by leaving valuables clearly visible.
I was tempted to take the day off.
How can we tempt young people into engineering?
Nothing would tempt me to live here.
the temptation of easy profits
to give way to/yield to temptation
I couldn't resist the temptation to open the letter.
Don't put temptation in her way by offering her a cigarette.
An expensive bicycle is a temptation to thieves.
It was a tempting offer.
That cake looks very tempting.
It's tempting to speculate about what might have happened.
Not brilliant, Robyn, but I'll give you ten out of ten for effort.
Ten to one he'll be late.
Have you got a ten pence piece?
a tenable position
The old idea that this work was not suitable for women was no longer tenable.
The lectureship is tenable for a period of three years.
a tenacious grip
She's a tenacious woman. She never gives up.
The party has kept its tenacious hold on power for more than twenty years.
a tenacious illness
Though seriously ill, he still clings tenaciously to life.
They competed with skill and tenacity.
(figurative) Tentacles of fear closed around her body.
The tentacles of satellite television are spreading even wider.
a tenement block
a three-month tenancy
a tenancy agreement
They had taken over the tenancy of the farm.
They had evicted their tenants for non-payment of rent.
The decorating was done by a previous tenant.
tenant farmers (= ones who do not own their own farms)
a tenanted farm
Women tend to live longer than men.
When I'm tired, I tend to make mistakes.
It tends to get very cold here in the winter.
People tend to think that the problem will never affect them.
His views tend towards the extreme.
Prices have tended downwards over recent years.
a shepherd tending his sheep
Doctors and nurses tended the injured.
well-tended gardens
Ambulance crews were tending to the injured.
He had a job tending bar in San Francisco.
to display artistic, etc. tendencies
I have a tendency to talk too much when I'm nervous.
There is a tendency for this disease to run in families.
She has a strong natural tendency towards caution.
There is a growing tendency among employers to hire casual staff.
tender words
What he needs now is a lot of tender loving care (= sympathetic treatment).
This meat is extremely tender.
tender young plants
Cleaning services have been put out to tender (= companies have been asked to make offers to supply these services).
a competitive tender
Local firms were invited to tender for the building contract.
He has tendered his resignation to the Prime Minister.
one of the basic/central tenets of Christianity
You can have it for a tenner.
to play tennis
a tennis player/tournament/club/court
I was encouraged by the general tenor of his remarks.
a tenor saxophone
a tenuous hold on life
His links with the organization turned out to be, at best, tenuous.
He's a very tense person.
She sounded tense and angry.
I spent a tense few weeks waiting for the results of the tests.
The atmosphere in the meeting was getting more and more tense.
A massage will relax those tense muscles.
the past/present/future tense
She tensed her muscles in anticipation of the blow.
He tensed himself, listening to see if anyone had followed him.
His muscles tensed as he got ready to run.
She tensed, hearing the strange noise again.
the tensile strength of rope
tensile cable
There is mounting tension along the border.
international/racial/political tensions
There is often a tension between the aims of the company and the wishes of the employees.
We laughed and that helped ease the tension.
dramatic tension
As the movie progresses the tension builds.
muscular tension
Adjust the string tension of your tennis racket to suit your style of playing.
to put up/take down a tent
to pitch (= put up) a tent
Food will be served in the hospitality tent (= for example at an outdoor show).
We made a tentative arrangement to meet on Friday.
tentative conclusions
a tentative greeting
I'm taking the first tentative steps towards fitness.
a tented village
his four-year tenure as President
She knew that tenure of high political office was beyond her.
It's still extremely difficult to get tenure.
a tenured post
a tenured professor
tepid tea
a tepid bath
The play was greeted with tepid applause.
the tercentenary of the school's foundation
tercentenary celebrations
enemy/disputed/foreign territory
occupied territories
They have refused to allow UN troops to be stationed in their territory.
Mating blackbirds will defend their territory against intruders.
(figurative) This type of work is uncharted territory for us.
(figurative) Legal problems are Andy's territory (= he deals with them).
Our representatives cover a very large territory.
unexplored territory
Guam and American Samoa are US territories.
a technical/legal/scientific, etc. term
a term of abuse
'Register' is the term commonly used to describe different levels of formality in language.
the spring/summer/autumn/fall term
Many students now have paid employment during term.
(BrE) It's nearly the end of term.
(NAmE) the end of the term
during the president's first term of/in office
He faces a maximum prison/jail term of 25 years.
a long term of imprisonment
the term of the loan
His life had reached its natural term.
(medical 医学) The pregnancy went to full term (= lasted the normal length of time).
At his age, he can hardly be termed a young man.
REM sleep is termed 'active' sleep.
Please give your term-time address.
A second terminal was opened in 2008.
a railway/bus/ferry terminal
a positive/negative terminal
He has terminal lung cancer.
The illness is usually terminal.
(figurative) She's suffering from terminal (= very great) boredom.
a terminal patient
The industry is in terminal decline.
a terminal branch of a tree
terminal examinations (= at the end of a course, etc.)
a hospice for the terminally ill
a terminally dull film
Your contract of employment terminates in December.
The agreement was terminated immediately.
to terminate a pregnancy (= to perform or have an abortion )
This train terminates at London Victoria.
Failure to comply with these conditions will result in termination of the contract.
The disagreement arose over a different use of terminology.
a termite colony
termly reports
peace terms
Under the terms of the agreement, their funding of the project will continue until 2015.
They failed to agree on the terms of a settlement.
These are the terms and conditions of your employment.
to buy sth on easy terms (= paying for it over a long period)
My terms are £20 a lesson.
We wish to protest in the strongest possible terms (= to say we are very angry).
The letter was brief, and couched in very polite terms.
The matter, they decided, lay outside the commission's terms of reference.
After two days at sea, it was good to be back on terra firma again.
12 Albert Terrace
a sun terrace
a roof terrace
All rooms have a balcony or terrace.
a terraced cottage
terraced housing
terraced streets
difficult/rough/mountainous, etc. terrain
terrestrial life
a terrible experience
I've just had a terrible thought.
a terrible accident
He had suffered terrible injuries.
I feel terrible—I think I'll go to bed.
a terrible meal
Your driving is terrible!
a terrible mistake
to be in terrible pain
The room was in a terrible mess.
(informal) I had a terrible job (= it was very difficult) to persuade her to come.
I'm terribly sorry—did I hurt you?
It's terribly important for parents to be consistent.
I miss him terribly.
They suffered terribly when their son was killed.
The experiment went terribly wrong.
I feel absolutely terrific today!
I've got a terrific amount of work to do.
We drove along at a terrific speed.
terrifically exciting
to be terrified of spiders
I'm terrified of losing you.
He was terrified (that) he would fall.
She was terrified at the thought of being alone.
Flying terrifies her.
It was a terrifying experience.
territorial disputes
Both countries feel they have territorial claims to (= have a right to own) the islands.
territorial instincts
Cats are very territorial.
the instinctive territoriality of some animals
The country was trying to expand territorially.
The terrorists are threatening to blow up the plane.
a terrorist attack/bomb/group
a feeling of sheer/pure terror
People fled from the explosion in terror.
She lives in terror of (= is constantly afraid of) losing her job.
Some women have a terror of losing control in the birth process.
(literary) The very name of the enemy struck terror into their hearts.
These street gangs have become the terror of the neighbourhood.
Death holds no terrors for (= does not frighten or worry) me.
The terrors of the night were past.
a campaign of terror
terror tactics
Their kids are real little terrors.
drug dealers terrorizing the neighbourhood
People were terrorized into leaving their homes.
an act of terrorism
a terse style
The President issued a terse statement denying the charges.
the tertiary sector (= the area of industry that deals with services rather than materials or goods)
(BrE) tertiary education (= at university or college level)
a tessellated pavement
an IQ/intelligence/aptitude test
to take a test
(BrE) to do a test
a test on irregular verbs
to pass/fail a test
(BrE) a good mark in the test
(NAmE) a good grade on the test
a test for AIDS
an eye test
a pregnancy test
When can I get my test results?
laboratory tests
a nuclear test
Tests have shown high levels of pollutants in the water.
I'll run a diagnostic test to see why the server keeps crashing.
The local elections will be a good test of the government's popularity.
Children are tested on core subjects at ages 7, 11 and 14.
We test your English before deciding which class to put you in.
Schools use various methods of testing.
students who tested well in reading
to test sb's eyesight/hearing
The doctor tested him for hepatitis.
to test positive/negative
Two athletes tested positive for steroids.
Test your brakes regularly.
Our beauty products are not tested on animals.
The water is regularly tested for purity.
They opened a single store in Europe to test out the market.
The ad had tested badly with consumers.
The long climb tested our fitness and stamina.
a tried and tested method for solving the problem
testing for oil
The software has been tested for viruses.
a test ban treaty
(figurative) The country is an ideal test bed for emerging technologies.
testable hypotheses
The new model is a testament to the skill and dedication of the workforce.
This is the last will and testament of…
a glowing testimonial
The catalogue is full of testimonials from satisfied customers.
a testimonial game (= to raise money for a particular player)
This increase in exports bears testimony to the successes of industry.
The pyramids are an eloquent testimony to the ancient Egyptians' engineering skills.
a sworn testimony
Can I refuse to give testimony?
testers of new software
testicular cancer
'Leave me alone,' she said testily.
She refused to testify against her husband.
There are several witnesses who will testify for the defence.
He was summoned to testify before a grand jury about his role in the affair.
Evans testified to receiving $200 000 in bribes.
He testified (that) he was at the theatre at the time of the murder.
'I was approached by a man I did not recognize,' she testified.
Too many young people are unable to write or spell well, as employers will testify.
The film testifies to the courage of ordinary people during the war.
nuclear testing
testing and assessment in education
a piece of land in use as a tank testing ground
The preparations were made with Teutonic thoroughness.
My job is to lay out the text and graphics on the page.
a computer that can process text
printed text
The newspaper had printed the full text of the president's speech.
a literary text
(BrE) 'Macbeth' is a set text this year.
Read the text carefully and then answer the questions.
medical texts
Text me when you're on your way.
Kids seem to be texting non-stop these days.
I'll text you the final score.
Send a text message to this number to vote.
I text-messaged him to say we were waiting in the pub.
text-to-speech software
a TTS package
a school/medical/history, etc. textbook
a textbook example of how the game should be played
a factory producing a range of textiles
a textile designer
textual analysis
textual errors
the textural characteristics of the rocks
the soft texture of velvet
She uses a variety of different colours and textures in her wall hangings.
The two cheeses were very different in both taste and texture.
the rich texture of the symphony
textured wallpaper
a 17 in TFT screen
I must write and thank Mary for the present.
In his speech, he thanked everyone for all their hard work.
She said goodbye and thanked us for coming.
There's no need to thank me—I enjoyed doing it.
Thank you for your letter.
Thank you very much for sending the photos.
'Would you like some help with that?' 'Oh, thank you.'
'Would you like some more cake?' 'No thank you.'
'Shall I do that?' 'I can do it myself, thank you.'
The actor sent a big thank you to all his fans for their letters of support.
She took the money without so much as a thank you.
a thank-you letter
I was thankful to see they'd all arrived safely.
He wasn't badly hurt—that's something to be thankful for.
I was thankful that he hadn't been hurt.
There was a fire in the building, but thankfully no one was hurt.
I accepted the invitation thankfully.
Sometimes being a mother and a housewife felt like a thankless task.
Thanks for lending me the money.
Many thanks for your support.
'How are you?' 'Fine, thanks (= thanks for asking).'
'Would you like a coffee?' 'Oh, thanks.'
'Here's the change.' ' Thanks very much.'
'Would you like some more?' 'No thanks.'
How can I ever express my thanks to you for all you've done?
Thanks are due to all those who worked so hard for so many months.
She murmured her thanks.
Thanks a lot for all you've done.
'I'm afraid I've finished all the milk.' 'Well, thanks a lot!'
It was all a great success—thanks to a lot of hard work.
Everyone knows about it now, thanks to you!
We always eat turkey on Thanksgiving.
Are you going home for Thanksgiving?
'I'm tired!' 'That makes two of us!'
They went thataway!
a roof made of thatch
The thatch was badly damaged in the storm.
They live in a thatched cottage.
It's starting to thaw.
Leave the meat to thaw completely before cooking.
I could feel my ears and toes start to thaw out.
Relations between the two countries thawed a little after the talks.
People are basically the same the world over.
a degree from the university of life
I had no intention of going into the whys and the wherefores of the situation.
the permanence of the written word
We all envy the Bill Gateses of this world (= the people who are as rich and successful as Bill Gates).
Broadway theatres
an open-air theatre
How often do you go to the theatre?
an evening of live music and theatre
(BrE) I like music, theatre and cinema.
current ideas about what makes good theatre (= what makes good entertainment when performed)
I want to work in theatre.
He was essentially a man of the theatre.
a theatre sister (= a nurse who helps during operations)
He's still in theatre.
the theatregoing public
a theatrical agent
a theatrical gesture
amateur theatricals
We beseech thee, O Lord.
car theft
Police are investigating the theft of computers from the company's offices.
a car/jewel, etc. thief
Their parties are always fun.
Which is their house?
If anyone calls, ask for their number so I can call them back.
Theirs are the children with very fair hair.
It's a favourite game of theirs.
Tell them the news.
What are you doing with those matches? Give them to me.
Did you eat all of them?
It's them.
If anyone comes in before I get back, ask them to wait.
the thematic structure of a text
The books have been grouped thematically.
North American literature is the main theme of this year's festival.
The President stressed a favourite campaign theme—greater emphasis on education.
The naked male figure was always the central theme of Greek art.
The stories are all variations on the theme of unhappy marriage.
the theme from 'The Godfather'
an Irish theme pub
a western-style theme park
a themed restaurant
Does anyone here consider themself a good cook?
They seemed to be enjoying themselves.
The children were arguing amongst themselves.
They've bought themselves a new car.
They themselves had had a similar experience.
Don and Julie paid for it themselves.
There wasn't anyone who hadn't enjoyed themselves.
Life was harder then because neither of us had a job.
Things were very different back then.
She grew up in Zimbabwe, or Rhodesia as it then was.
I saw them at Christmas but haven't heard a thing since then.
I've been invited too, so I'll see you then.
There's a room free in Bob's house next week but you can stay with us until then.
Call again next week. They should have reached a decision by then.
Just then (= at that moment) there was a knock at the door.
She left in 1984 and from then on he lived alone.
I took one look at the car and offered to buy it there and then/then and there (= immediately).
He drank a glass of whisky, then another and then another.
First cook the onions, then add the mushrooms.
We lived in France and then Italy before coming back to England.
If you miss that train then you'll have to get a taxi.
'My wife's got a job in Glasgow.' 'I take it you'll be moving, then.'
'You haven't done anything to upset me.' 'So what's wrong, then?'
Why don't you hire a car? Then you'll be able to visit more of the area.
She's been very busy at work and then there was all that trouble with her son.
These, then, are the main areas of concern.
Right then, where do you want the table to go?
'I really have to go.' 'OK. Bye, then.'
OK then, I think we've just about covered everything on the agenda.
That decision was taken by the then president.
They made their way from Spain to France and thence to England.
He was promoted to manager, thence to a partnership in the firm.
theocratic rule
a degree in Theology
a theology student
the theologies of the East
(BrE) a theological college
(NAmE) a theological seminary
a theoretical approach
theoretical physics
The first year provides students with a sound theoretical basis for later study.
It's a theoretical possibility.
theoretically sound conclusions
It is theoretically possible for him to overrule their decision, but highly unlikely.
According to the theory of relativity, nothing can travel faster than light.
the theory and practice of language teaching
I have this theory that most people prefer being at work to being at home.
The study theorizes about the role of dreams in peoples' lives.
She married at 17 and gave birth to her first child shortly thereafter.
the therapeutic properties of herbs
Painting can be very therapeutic.
Most leukaemia patients undergo some sort of drug therapy (= treatment using drugs).
alternative/complementary/natural therapies (= treatments that do not use traditional drugs)
a therapy group
She's in therapy.
a speech therapist
a beauty therapist
There's a restaurant around the corner.
There are two people waiting outside.
Has there been an accident?
I don't want there to be any misunderstanding.
There seemed to be no doubt about it.
There comes a point where you give up.
There remains the problem of finance.
Suddenly there was a loud bang.
(informal) There's only four days left.
(literary) There once was a poor farmer who had four sons.
We went on to Paris and stayed there eleven days.
I hope we get there in time.
It's there, right in front of you!
There it is —just behind the chair.
'Have you seen my pen?' 'Yes, it's over there.'
There are a lot of people back there (= behind) waiting to get in.
I'm not going in there —it's freezing!
We're almost there (= we have almost arrived).
Can I get there and back in a day?
I left in 2008 and I haven't been back there since.
Hello, is Bob there please?(= used when calling sb on the phone)
I took one look at the car and offered to buy it there and then/then and there (= immediately).
I went to see if my old school was still there.
The money's there if you need it.
'I feel…' There she stopped.
I don't agree with you there.
Hello, there!
You there! Come back!
There you are! I've been looking for you everywhere.
There's the statue I was telling you about.
That woman there is the boss's wife.
There goes the last bus (= we've just missed it).
There goes the phone (= it's ringing).
(humorous) There goes my career!(= my career is ruined)
So, there you have it: that's how it all started.
The fact is, they're there to make money.
It's crazy, I know, but there it is.
Finish your lunch, there's a good boy.
She visited him every day he was in the hospital. There's devotion for you.
(ironic) He didn't even say thank you. There's gratitude for you!
At the end of the tournament, he'll be there or thereabouts (= he may not win, but he will be one of the best players).
There, there! Never mind, you'll soon feel better.
There you are—that'll be £3.80, please.
OK, there you go.
You switch on, push in the DVD and there you are!
There you are! I told you it was easy!
There you go—that's what they're like.
I know it's not ideal but there you go…
There you go again—jumping to conclusions.
There now! What did I tell you?(= you can see that I was right)
There! That didn't hurt too much, did it?
There! You've gone and woken the baby!
He comes from Leeds or thereabouts.
They paid $100 000 or thereabouts for the house.
Regular exercise strengthens the heart, thereby reducing the risk of heart attack.
He's only 17 and therefore not eligible to vote.
There is still much to discuss. We shall, therefore, return to this item at our next meeting.
The committee will examine the agreement and any problems arising therefrom.
The insurance policy covers the building and any fixtures contained therein.
He works extremely hard and therein lies the key to his success.
Is the property or any part thereof used for commercial activity?
a meeting to discuss the annual accounts and the auditors' report thereon
The lease entitles the holder to use the buildings and any land attached thereto.
This savings plan is only available under the Finance Act 1990 and any regulations made thereunder.
The audience thereupon rose cheering to their feet.
a large notice with black letters printed thereupon
thermal energy
thermal underwear
thermal springs
Rescue teams are using thermal imaging to locate survivors of the earthquake.
thermonuclear
thermometer
the laws of thermodynamics
a thermometer reading
These latest findings support the thesis that sexuality is determined by nature rather than choice.
a thick slice of bread
a thick book (= one that has a lot of pages)
a thick coat (= one made of heavy cloth)
thick fingers
Everything was covered with a thick layer of dust.
How thick are the walls?
They're two feet thick.
thick dark hair
a thick forest
thick soup
The effect will be ruined if the paint is too thick.
The plane crashed in thick fog.
thick smoke
The air was thick with dust.
(figurative) The atmosphere was thick with tension.
The beach was thick with sunbathers.
Are you thick, or what?
a thick Brooklyn accent
His voice was thick with emotion.
You seem to be very thick with the boss!
When will you get it into your thick head that I don't want to see you again!
He's supported the team for over ten years through thick and thin.
Make sure you cut the bread nice and thick.
Stir until the sauce has thickened.
It was a dangerous journey through thickening fog.
Thicken the stew with flour.
paint thickeners
thickly sliced bread
Apply the paint thickly in even strokes.
Use wood of at least 12 mm thickness.
The board is available in four thicknesses.
The jacket was lined with a double thickness (= two layers) of fabric.
You've no right to take that, you thieving swine!
Cut the vegetables into thin strips.
A number of thin cracks appeared in the wall.
The body was hidden beneath a thin layer of soil.
a thin blouse (= of light cloth)
He was tall and thin, with dark hair.
She was looking pale and thin.
He is as thin as a rake (= very thin).
thin legs
Steve is tall and thin and has brown hair.
Mother looked thin and tired after her long illness.
She has a beautifully slim figure.
a skinny little kid
the old man's bony hands
a scrawny old woman
Women who smoke risk giving birth to underweight babies.
thin grey hair
The sauce was thin and tasteless.
They fought their way through where the smoke was thinner.
Her thin voice trailed off into silence.
He gave a thin smile.
the thin grey light of dawn
a thin excuse (= one that people are not likely to believe)
Their arguments all sound a little thin to me.
He's starting to get a little thin on top (= he's losing his hair).
These excuses are wearing a little thin (= because we've heard them so many times before).
Don't spread it too thin.
I like my bread sliced thin.
Thin the paint with water.
a middle-aged man with thinning hair
The clouds thinned and the moon shone through.
The crowd had thinned out and only a few people were left.
Thin out the seedlings to about 10cm apart.
I had to do some quick thinking.
What is the current thinking on this question?
She explained the thinking behind the campaign.
the thinking woman's magazine
It's one of those thingummies for keeping papers together.
Is thingummy going to be there? You know, that woman from the Sales Department?
Such an idea was scarcely thinkable ten years ago.
Einstein was one of the greatest thinkers of the 20th century.
a clear thinker
Slice the potatoes thinly.
a thinly populated area
She smiled thinly.
The novel is a thinly disguised autobiography.
'They are' is the third person plural of the verb 'to be'.
a book written in the third person
the causes of poverty and injustice in the Third World
Third-World debt
They are treated as third-class citizens.
to travel third class
a third-rate actor
Thirdly, I would like to say that…
He quenched his thirst with a long drink of cold water.
She woke up with a raging thirst and a headache.
Thousands are dying of thirst.
a thirst for knowledge
She thirsted for power.
We were hungry and thirsty.
Digging is thirsty work (= makes you thirsty).
He is thirsty for power.
Paul drank thirstily.
a thorny question/issue/problem
a thorny bush
a thorough knowledge of the subject
The police carried out a thorough investigation.
She's very thorough and conscientious.
Everything was in a thorough mess.
I was impressed by the thoroughness of the report.
I admire his thoroughness.
a thoroughbred mare
a thoroughgoing revision of the text
a thoroughgoing commitment to change
We thoroughly enjoyed ourselves.
I'm thoroughly confused.
a thoroughly professional performance
Wash the fruit thoroughly before use.
The work had not been done very thoroughly.
Anne was fond of Tim, though he often annoyed her.
Though she gave no sign, I was sure she had seen me.
His clothes, though old and worn, looked clean and of good quality.
Strange though it may sound, I was pleased it was over.
They're very different, though they did seem to get on well when they met.
He'll probably say no, though it's worth asking.
Our team lost. It was a good game though.
'Have you ever been to Australia?' 'No. I'd like to, though.'
They export their products to markets throughout the world.
The house was painted white throughout.
The museum is open daily throughout the year.
The ceremony lasted two hours and we had to stand throughout.
I don't like the thought of you walking home alone.
The very thought of it makes me feel sick.
She was struck by the sudden thought that he might already have left.
I've just had a thought (= an idea).
Would Mark be able to help? It's just a thought.
'Why don't you try the other key?' ' That's a thought!'
I'd like to hear your thoughts on the subject.
My thoughts turned to home.
A good teacher encourages independence of thought.
She was lost in thought (= concentrating so much on her thoughts that she was not aware of her surroundings).
I've given the matter careful thought.
Not enough thought has gone into this essay.
Spare a thought for those without enough to eat this winter.
Don't give it another thought (= to tell sb not to worry after they have said they are sorry).
It's the thought that counts (= used to say that sb has been very kind even if they have only done sth small or unimportant).
She had given up all thought of changing her job.
He acted with no thoughts of personal gain.
feminist thought
He dived in after her without a second thought.
He looked thoughtful.
They sat in thoughtful silence.
It was very thoughtful of you to send the flowers.
a player who has a thoughtful approach to the game
Martin looked at her thoughtfully.
She used the towel thoughtfully provided by her host.
a thoughtless remark
Four thousand (people) are expected to attend.
Two thousand (pounds) was withdrawn from the account.
There were thousands of people there.
The cost ran into the thousands.
the city's thousandth anniversary
a/one thousandth of a second
Someone was thrashing around in the water, obviously in trouble.
A whale was thrashing the water with its tail.
She thrashed her head from side to side.
Scotland thrashed England 5–1.
to give sb/get a thrashing
a robe embroidered with gold thread
the delicate threads of a spider's web
A common thread runs through these discussions.
The author skilfully draws together the different threads of the plot.
I lost the thread of the argument (= I could no longer follow it).
A thread of light emerged from the keyhole.
to thread a needle (with cotton)
to thread cotton through a needle
A tiny wire is threaded through a vein to the heart.
The waiters threaded between the crowded tables.
It took me a long time to thread my way through the crowd.
to thread beads (onto a string)
a robe threaded with gold and silver
a threadbare carpet
to make threats against sb
She is prepared to carry out her threat to resign.
He received death threats from right-wing groups.
crimes involving violence or the threat of violence
These ancient woodlands are under threat from new road developments.
There is a real threat of war.
He is unlikely to be a threat to the Spanish player in the final.
Drugs pose a major threat to our society.
They broke my windows and threatened me.
The attacker threatened them with a gun.
He was threatened with dismissal if he continued to turn up late for work.
The threatened strike has been called off.
The hijackers threatened to kill one passenger every hour if their demands were not met.
They threatened that passengers would be killed.
A storm was threatening.
This dispute threatens to split the party.
The clouds threatened rain.
Pollution is threatening marine life.
threatening letters
threatening behaviour
The sky was dark and threatening.
He glared at her threateningly.
three quarters of an hour
a three-cornered contest
These glasses allow you to see the film in three-D.
a three-D image
three-dimensional objects
a three-piece suit (= a set of clothes consisting of trousers/pants, a jacket and a waistcoat/ vest )
(BrE) a three-piece suite (= a set of three pieces of furniture, usually a sofa and two armchairs)
a three-quarter length coat
a three-star hotel
a three-star general
a three-way switch
a three-way discussion
a threshing machine
She stood hesitating on the threshold.
He stepped across the threshold.
He has a low boredom threshold (= he gets bored easily).
I have a high pain threshold (= I can suffer a lot of pain before I start to react).
My earnings are just above the tax threshold (= more than the amount at which you start paying tax).
She felt as though she was on the threshold of a new life.
It gave me a big thrill to meet my favourite author in person.
the thrill of catching a really big fish
She gets an obvious thrill out of performing.
A thrill of alarm ran through him.
This band has thrilled audiences all over the world.
I was thrilled by your news.
He was thrilled at the prospect of seeing them again.
I was thrilled to be invited.
(BrE) She was thrilled to bits (= extremely pleased) that he'd been offered the job.
'Are you pleased?' 'I'm thrilled.'
a thrilling experience/finish
New businesses thrive in this area.
These animals rarely thrive in captivity.
a thriving industry
He thrives on hard work.
a sore throat
A sob caught in his throat.
He held the knife to her throat.
Their throats had been cut.
a deep-throated roar
a blue-throated macaw
a throaty laugh
the throaty roar of the engines
My feet were throbbing after the long walk home.
The ship's engines throbbed quietly.
a throbbing drumbeat
The blood was throbbing in my veins.
(figurative) His voice was throbbing with emotion.
the throb of the machines
My headache faded to a dull throbbing.
The creature went into its death throes.
Queen Elizabeth came/succeeded to the throne in 1952.
when Henry VIII was on the throne (= was king)
We pushed our way through the throng.
The children thronged into the hall.
People are thronging to see his new play.
Crowds thronged the stores.
He throttled the guard with his bare hands.
(humorous) I like her, although I could cheerfully throttle her at times (= because she is annoying).
(figurative) The city is being throttled by traffic.
I throttled back as we approached the runway.
He drove along at full throttle (= as fast as possible).
The burglar got in through the window.
The bullet went straight through him.
Her knees had gone through (= made holes in) her jeans.
The sand ran through (= between) my fingers.
The path led through the trees to the river.
The doctor pushed his way through the crowd.
The Charles River flows through Boston.
I couldn't hear their conversation through the wall.
He could just make out three people through the mist.
The children are too young to sit through a concert.
He will not live through the night.
I'm halfway through (= reading) her second novel.
Go through this gate, and you'll see the house on your left.
He drove through a red light (= passed it when he should have stopped).
First I have to get through the exams.
The bill had a difficult passage through Parliament.
I'd never have got through it all (= a difficult situation) without you.
We'll be in New York Tuesday through Friday.
You can only achieve success through hard work.
It was through him (= as a result of his help) that I got the job.
The accident happened through no fault of mine.
Put the coffee in the filter and let the water run through.
The tyre's flat—the nail has gone right through.
The onlookers stood aside to let the paramedics through.
The flood was too deep to drive through.
Don't tell me how it ends—I haven't read it all the way through yet.
I expect I'll struggle through until payday.
The lights were red but he drove straight through.
Our team is through to (= has reached) the semi-finals.
'Did you stop in Oxford on the way?' 'No, we drove straight through.'
This train goes straight through to York.
Ask to be put through to me personally.
I tried to call you but I couldn't get through.
We got wet through.
He's British through and through.
The village lies on a busy through road.
No through road (= the road is closed at one end).
Are you through with that newspaper?
Todd and I are through.
Stop throwing stones at the window!
She threw the ball up and caught it again.
They had a competition to see who could throw the furthest.
Don't throw it to him, give it to him!
Can you throw me that towel?
Just throw your bag down over there.
The boat was thrown onto the rocks.
The sea throws up all sorts of debris on the beach.
I threw open the windows to let the smoke out.
He threw back his head and roared with laughter.
I ran up and threw my arms around him.
Jenny threw herself onto the bed.
Two riders were thrown (= off their horses) in the second race.
Hundreds were thrown out of work.
We were thrown into confusion by the news.
The problem was suddenly thrown into sharp focus.
to throw doubt on the verdict
to throw the blame on someone
to throw accusations at someone
He threw the question back at me (= expected me to answer it myself).
The news of her death really threw me.
Throw the dice!
He threw three sixes in a row.
a hand-thrown vase
The trees threw long shadows across the lawn.
She'll throw a fit if she finds out.
Children often throw tantrums at this age.
He was accused of having thrown the game.
I don't need that—you can throw it away.
That old chair should be thrown away.
to throw away an opportunity
There was no TV so we were thrown back on our own resources (= had to entertain ourselves).
You can have the piano for $200, and I'll throw in the stool as well.
Jack threw in the odd encouraging comment.
to throw off a cold/your worries/your pursuers
She entered the room and threw off her wet coat.
She just threw on the first skirt she found.
The debate will be thrown open to the audience.
You'll be thrown out if you don't pay the rent.
to throw out a suggestion
a small fire that threw out a lot of heat
Our calculations of the cost of our trip were thrown out by changes in the exchange rate.
Fate had thrown them together.
I threw together a quick meal.
The smell made me want to throw up.
The baby's thrown up her dinner.
Her research has thrown up some interesting facts.
They're throwing up new housing estates all over the place.
to throw up your career
a well-aimed throw
It's your throw (= it's your turn to throw the dice ).
He threw me to the ground with a judo throw.
a javelin throw of 57 metres
She was very upset at what to him was just a throwaway remark.
throwaway products
We live in a throwaway society (= a society in which things are not made to last a long time).
The car's design is a throwback to the 1960s.
a discus thrower
a song thrush
He thrust the baby into my arms and ran off.
She thrust her hands deep into her pockets.
(figurative) He tends to thrust himself forward too much.
She thrust past him angrily and left.
He thrust at me with a knife.
a thrusting movement
All our objections were thrust aside.
She was annoyed at having three extra guests suddenly thrust on her.
The thrust of his argument was that change was needed.
He killed her with a thrust of the knife.
the New York State Thruway
His head hit the floor with a dull thud.
His arrow thudded into the target.
a gang of thugs
thuggish brutality
She still sucks her thumb when she's worried.
There's a hole in the thumb.
Their proposals were given the thumbs down.
It looks like it's thumbs up for their latest album.
He had thumbed all across Europe.
(BrE) We managed to thumb a lift with a lorry driver.
(NAmE) We managed to thumb a ride with a truck driver.
She thumbed off the safety catch of her pistol.
Their sales projections are a total thumbsuck.
He thumped the table angrily.
She couldn't get her breath and had to be thumped on the back.
(informal) I'll thump you if you say that again.
(figurative) He thumped out a tune (= played it very loudly) on the piano.
A bird thumped against the window.
He thumped the report down on my desk.
My heart was thumping with excitement.
There was a thump as the truck hit the bank.
She gave him a thump on the back.
a thumping majority
He told us a thumping great lie.
the rumble of distant thunder
a clap/crash/roll of thunder
Thunder crashed in the sky.
the thunder of hooves
A voice thundered in my ear.
thundering traffic
Heavy trucks kept thundering past.
Essien thundered the ball past the goalie.
He thundered against the evils of television.
'Sit still!' she thundered.
The news hit them like a thunderbolt (= was very shocking).
thunderous applause
his thunderous expression
Many scholars have argued thus.
The universities have expanded, thus allowing many more people the chance of higher education.
He is the eldest son and thus heir to the title.
We do not own the building. Thus, it would be impossible for us to make any major changes to it.
the thwack of bat on ball
to thwart sb's plans
She was thwarted in her attempt to take control of the party.
Thx for the info, everyone!
Honour thy father and thy mother.
In the silence we could hear the clock ticking.
a ticking bomb
While we waited the taxi's meter kept ticking away.
Please tick the appropriate box.
Tick 'yes' or 'no' to each question.
I've ticked the names of the people who have paid.
I've never really understood what makes her tick.
I had to get to the airport by two, and the minutes were ticking away.
The clock ticked away the minutes.
Just keep things ticking over while I'm away.
Put a tick in the appropriate box if you would like further information about any of our products.
a tick bite
The only sound was the soft tick of the clock.
Hang on a tick!
I'll be with you in two ticks.
Can I have these on tick?
a ticker-tape parade in the streets of New York (= an occasion when people throw pieces of paper as part of a celebration, for example in honour of a famous person)
a bus/theatre/plane, etc. ticket
free tickets to the show
Tickets are available from the Arts Centre at £5.00.
a ticket office/machine/collector
(figurative) She hoped that getting this job would finally be her ticket to success.
a lottery/raffle ticket
There are three winning tickets.
a parking/speeding ticket
She ran for office on the Democratic ticket.
Passengers can now be ticketed electronically.
Park illegally, and you're likely to be ticketed.
The museum holds both free and ticketed events.
ticketing systems
The bigger girls used to chase me and tickle me.
Stop tickling!
His beard was tickling her cheek.
My throat tickles.
a tickling cough
to tickle sb's imagination
I was tickled to discover that we'd both done the same thing.
She gave the child a little tickle.
to have a tickle in your throat (= that makes you want to cough)
Are you ticklish?
a dry ticklish cough
tidal forces
a tidal river
a tidal wave of crime
the ebb and flow of the tide
The tide is in/out.
Is the tide coming in or going out?
The body was washed up on the beach by the tide.
It takes courage to speak out against the tide of opinion.
There is anxiety about the rising tide of crime.
A tide of rage surged through her.
Christmastide
Can you lend me some money to tide me over until I get paid?
a tidy desk
She keeps her flat very tidy.
I like everything to be neat and tidy.
I'm a tidy person.
tidy habits
It must have cost a tidy sum.
a tidy profit
The room was very tidily arranged.
I spent all morning cleaning and tidying.
When you cook, could you please tidy up after yourself.
to tidy (up) a room
I tidied up the report before handing it in.
a desk tidy
I am the bearer of good tidings.
He brought glad tidings.
She tied the newspapers in a bundle.
He had to tie her hands together.
They tied him to a chair with cable.
Shall I tie the package or tape it?
I tie back my hair when I'm cooking.
She tied a label on to the suitcase.
to tie a ribbon
Can you help me tie my tie?
Tie up your shoelaces!
I tied a knot in the rope.
The skirt ties at the waist.
Pay increases are tied to inflation.
The house is tied to the job, so we'll have to move when I retire.
to be tied by a contract
I want to work but I'm tied to the house with the baby.
I don't want to be tied to coming home at a particular time.
England tied 2–2 with Germany in the first round.
They tied for second place.
The scores are tied at 3–3.
Last night's vote was tied.
Kids tie you down, don't they?
I don't want to tie myself down to coming back on a particular date.
This evidence ties in closely with what we already know.
The concert will tie in with the festival of dance taking place the same weekend.
to tie off a rope
to tie off an artery
We tied up alongside the quay.
We tied the boat up.
to tie up a garbage bag
The gang tied up a security guard.
I'm tied up in a meeting until 3.
He left his dog tied up to a tree.
Her behaviour is tied up with her feelings of guilt.
Most of the capital is tied up in property.
We are hoping to tie up the deal by tomorrow.
I went into the office for an hour to tie up any loose ends (= finish remaining small jobs).
a collar and tie
a striped silk tie
ties for closing plastic bags
family ties
the ties of friendship
economic ties
The firm has close ties with an American corporation.
He was still a young man and he did not want any ties.
The match ended in a tie.
the first leg of the Cup tie between Leeds and Roma
They're negotiating a tie-up with Ford.
a tie-up between politics and economics
a traffic tie-up
a tied cottage on a farm
a wedding cake with three tiers
The seating is arranged in tiers.
We have introduced an extra tier of administration.
a two-tier system of management
tiered seating
a two-tiered system
to have a tiff with sb
She fought like a tiger to be able to keep her children.
Being raised by a tiger mother to me means as a child, I wasn't given the freedom to make my own decisions.
He kept a tight grip on her arm.
She twisted her hair into a tight knot.
The screw was so tight that it wouldn't move.
She was wearing a tight pair of jeans.
These shoes are much too tight.
The new sweater was a tight fit.
to keep tight control over sth
We need tighter security at the airport.
The rope was stretched tight.
There was a tight group of people around the speaker.
With six of us in the car it was a tight squeeze.
We have a very tight budget.
The president has a tight schedule today.
'I'm sorry,' she said, with a tight smile.
He complained of having a tight chest.
Her throat felt tight, just looking at her baby.
It was a tight community and newcomers were not welcome.
The driver slowed down at a tight bend in the road.
The plane flew around in a tight circle.
a tight race
He's very tight with his money.
measures to make your home weathertight
Hold tight!
My suitcase was packed tight.
His fists were clenched tight.
packed tight
a tight-fitting lid
clusters of tightly packed flowers
a tight-fitting skirt
a tight-knit mining community
The rope holding the boat suddenly tightened and broke.
His mouth tightened into a thin line.
to tighten a lid/screw/rope/knot
The nuts weren't properly tightened and the wheel came off.
She tightened her grip on his arm.
to tighten security
Laws on gambling have tightened up recently.
The police are tightening up on under-age drinking.
Her eyes were tightly closed.
He held on tightly to her arm.
a tightly packed crowd of tourists
a tightrope walker
a pair of tights
chicken tikka
ceramic floor tiles
carpet tiles
a tiled bathroom
We're open till 6 o'clock.
Can't you wait till we get home?
Just wait till you see it. It's great.
Please pay at the till.
a long queue at the till
Suddenly the boat tilted to one side.
The seat tilts forward, when you press this lever.
His hat was tilted slightly at an angle.
She tilted her head back and looked up at me with a smile.
The conditions may tilt the balance in favour of the Kenyan runners.
Popular opinion has tilted in favour of the socialists.
He was tilting at the top prize.
The table is at a slight tilt.
He answered with a tilt of his head.
She aims to have a tilt at the world championship next year.
the timber industry
houses built of timber
roof timbers
The changing seasons mark the passing of time.
A visit to the museum will take you back in time to the 1930s.
time and space
As time went by we saw less and less of each other.
Perceptions change over time (= as time passes).
What time is it/What's the time?
Do you have the time?
(BrE) What time do you make it?
(NAmE) What time do you have?
The time is now half past ten.
(BrE) Can she tell the time yet (= say what time it is by looking at a clock)?
(NAmE) Can she tell time yet?
My watch keeps perfect time (= always shows the correct time).
Look at the time! We'll be late.
This time tomorrow I'll be in Canada.
Greenwich Mean Time
6 o'clock local time
What time do you finish work?
The baby loves bath time.
I think it's time to go to bed.
It's time for lunch.
It's time the kids were in bed.
By the time you get there the meeting will be over.
A computer screen shows arrival and departure times.
The train arrived right on time (= at exactly the correct time).
You'll feel differently about it when the time comes (= when it happens).
Allow plenty of time to get to the airport.
I can probably make the time to see them.
It takes time to make changes in the law.
We have no time to lose (= we must hurry).
He spends most of his time working.
She doesn't have much free/spare time.
What a waste of time!
I didn't finish the test— I ran out of time.
Time's up —have you worked out the answer yet?
He never takes any time off (= time spent not working).
Jane's worked here for some time (= for a fairly long period of time).
Do it now please—not in three hours' time (= three hours from now).
The journey time is two hours.
His injuries will take a long time to heal.
I lived in Egypt for a time.
The early morning is the best time of day.
Her parents died a long time ago.
At one time (= at a period of time in the past) Emily was my best friend.
Mr Curtis was the manager in my time (= when I was working there).
The movie is set at the time of the Russian Revolution.
in ancient times
the violent times we live in (= the present period of history)
Times are hard for the unemployed.
Times have changed since Grandma was young.
Every time I hear that song I feel happy.
Next time you're here let's have lunch together.
He failed his driving test three times.
He's determined to pass this time.
When was the last time you saw her?
How many times (= how often) do I have to tell you not to do that?
(especially NAmE) I remember one time (= once) we had to abandon our car in the snow.
(formal) At no time did I give my consent to the plan.
This is the first time (that) I've been to London.
That was the last time (that) I saw her.
Did you have a good time in Spain?
I had an awful time in the hospital.
The winner's time was 11.6 seconds.
She completed the 500 metres in record time (= faster than any previous runner).
one of the fastest times ever
This piece is in four-four time.
a slow waltz time
The conductor beat time with a baton.
Try and dance in time to the music (= with the same speed and rhythm).
Clap your hands to keep time (= sing or move with the correct speed and rhythm).
to play in/out of time (= follow/not follow the correct speed and rhythm)
He always plays in perfect time.
Nine times out of ten she gives the right answer.
She timed her arrival for shortly after 3.
Their request was badly timed (= it was made at the wrong time).
'I hope we're not too early.' 'You couldn't have timed it better!'
Publication of his biography was timed to coincide with his 70th birthday celebrations.
The winner was timed at 20.4 seconds.
Time how long it takes you to answer the questions.
She timed the pass perfectly.
a beautifully timed shot
My satellite connection timed out—it was so frustrating.
Rising unemployment is a political time bomb for the government.
There is a long time lag between when I do the work and when I get paid.
We have to set a time limit for the work.
The work must be completed within a certain time limit.
These changes have occurred over a long time span.
The heating is on a time switch.
a difficult and time-consuming process
They showed their approval in the time-honoured way (= by clapping, for example).
a time-lapse sequence of a flower opening
products for customers who are time-poor but cash-rich
time-saving devices
her timeless beauty
timeless eternity
A nasty incident was prevented by the timely arrival of the police.
This has been a timely reminder to us all.
She wants to have a career rather than just a few years of timepass.
It's a good timepass film.
an oven timer
Five times two is/equals ten (= 5 × 2 = 10).
three times as long as sth
three times longer than sth
three times the length of sth
What's the timescale for the project?
timeshare apartments
They have a timeshare in Florida.
a bus/train timetable (= when they arrive and leave)
We have a new timetable each term (= showing the times of each class in school).
Sport is no longer so important in the school timetable (= all the subjects that are taught at schools).
I have a busy timetable this week (= I have planned to do many things).
The government has set out its timetable for the peace talks.
A series of discussion groups have been timetabled for the afternoons.
He stopped in the doorway, too timid to go in.
They've been rather timid in the changes they've made (= they've been afraid to make any big changes).
a timid voice
The timing of the decision was a complete surprise.
Please check your flight timings carefully.
an actor with a great sense of comic timing
Your timing is perfect. I was just about to call you.
She played the piano confidently but her timing was not good.
a tin mine
a tin box
a tin of beans
Next, add two tins of tomatoes.
a tin of varnish
The bedroom needed three tins of paint (= in order to paint it).
a biscuit/cake/cookie tin
a cake tin
The fire started late Saturday in tinder-dry grass near the Snake River.
white petals tinged with blue
a look of surprise tinged with disapproval
to feel a tinge of envy
There was a faint pink tinge to the sky.
a tingling sensation
She was still tingling with excitement.
to feel a tingle of excitement
a tingly sensation
a tiny baby
Only a tiny minority hold such extreme views.
the tinkle of glass breaking
to have a tinkle
A bell tinkled as the door opened.
tinkling laughter
tinned fruit
The beer tasted tinny.
a tinpot dictator
the brownish tint of an old photo
a blond tint
to have a tint
tinted glasses
the tips of your fingers
the tip of your nose
the northern tip of the island
a walking stick with a rubber tip
handy tips for buying a computer
useful tips on how to save money
a hot tip for the big race
The man was arrested after an anonymous tip.
to leave a tip
He gave the waiter a generous tip.
Their flat is a tip!
The boat tipped to one side.
The seat tips forward to allow passengers into the back.
She tipped her head back and laughed loudly.
She tipped the dirty water down the drain.
The bus stopped abruptly, nearly tipping me out of my seat.
The goalkeeper just managed to tip the ball over the crossbar.
'No tipping.' (= for example, on a notice)
Americans were always welcome because they tended to tip heavily.
Did you remember to tip the waiter?
She tipped the porter a dollar.
The band is being tipped for the top.
The senator has been tipped by many as a future president.
The actor is tipped to win an Oscar for his performance.
The wings are tipped with yellow.
Three men were arrested after police were tipped off about the raid.
They were tipped off that he might be living in Wales.
The mug tipped over, spilling hot coffee everywhere.
We'll have to tip the sofa up to get it through the door.
The man was arrested after an anonymous tip-off.
The house is in tip-top condition.
I tippexed out the mistakes.
She says that Americans are usually big tippers.
His favourite tipple was rum and lemon.
I tiptoed over to the window.
She launched into a tirade of abuse against politicians.
Her legs were beginning to tire.
He has made a good recovery but still tires easily.
They soon tired of the beach and went for a walk.
a front tire
a back/rear tire
to pump up a tire
a flat/burst/punctured tire
bald/worn tires
to check your tire pressure
to be/look/feel tired
I'm too tired even to think.
They were cold, hungry and tired out (= very tired).
tired feet
I'm sick and tired of all the arguments.
She was tired of hearing about their trip to India.
He always comes out with the same tired old jokes.
He shook his head tiredly.
a tireless campaigner for human rights
Buying a house can be a very tiresome business.
The children were being very tiresome.
It had been a long tiring day.
muscle/brain/nerve, etc. tissue
a box of tissues
a great tit
the routine tit for tat when countries expel each other's envoys
tit-for-tat assassinations by rival gangs
a titanic struggle between good and evil
titbits of gossip
titillating pictures
a story intended to titillate the imagination of the public
His poems were published under the title of 'Love and Reason'.
the title track from their latest CD (= the song with the same title as the disc)
She has sung the title role in 'Carmen' (= the role of Carmen in that opera ).
The company publishes twenty new titles a year.
The present duke inherited the title from his father.
Give your name and title (= Mr, Miss, Ms, Dr, etc.).
The official title of the job is 'Administrative Assistant'.
the world heavyweight title
She has three world titles.
Their first album was titled 'Made in Valmez'.
the current Olympic title-holder
the titular head of state
She was in a real tizzy before the meeting.
What he needs now is just rest and a lot of TLC.
I needed to go to the bathroom very badly—sorry, TMI!
I walked to the office.
It fell to the ground.
It was on the way to the station.
He's going to Paris.
my first visit to Africa
He pointed to something on the opposite bank.
Her childhood was spent travelling from place to place.
Place the cursor to the left of the first word.
There are mountains to the north.
The meadows lead down to the river.
Her hair fell to her waist.
The vegetables were cooked to perfection.
He tore the letter to pieces.
She sang the baby to sleep.
The letter reduced her to tears (= made her cry).
His expression changed from amazement to joy.
a drop in profits from $105 million to around $75 million
I'd say he was 25 to 30 years old (= approximately 25 or 30 years old).
I like all kinds of music from opera to reggae.
We only work from Monday to Friday.
I watched the programme from beginning to end.
How long is it to lunch?
(especially BrE) It's five to ten (= five minutes before ten o'clock).
He gave it to his sister.
I'll explain to you where everything goes.
I am deeply grateful to my parents.
Who did she address the letter to?
(formal) To whom did she address the letter?
She is devoted to her family.
What have you done to your hair?
Attach this rope to the front of the car.
She's married to an Italian.
the Japanese ambassador to France
the key to the door
the solution to this problem
It was a threat to world peace.
She made a reference to her recent book.
I prefer walking to climbing.
The industry today is nothing to what it once was.
We won by six goals to three.
There are 2.54 centimetres to an inch.
This car does 30 miles to the gallon.
a monument to the soldiers who died in the war
Let's drink to Julia and her new job.
He left the stage to prolonged applause.
People rushed to her rescue and picked her up.
His music isn't really to my taste.
To her astonishment, he smiled.
It sounded like crying to me.
I set out to buy food.
I am going to tell you a story.
She was determined to do well.
His aim was to become president.
To be honest with you, I don't remember what he said.
She managed to escape.
It was too hot to go out.
He couldn't get close enough to see.
I'm sorry to hear that.
I'd love to go to France this summer.
The leaflet explains how to apply for a place.
I don't know what to say.
He asked her to come but she said she didn't want to.
The house was said to be haunted.
I reached the station only to find that my train had already left.
You are not to talk during the exam.
She was to be here at 8.30 but she didn't arrive.
Push the door to.
The hotel has been refurbished to the tune of a million dollars.
Pilot error, to wit failure to follow procedures, was the cause of the accident.
What a to-do!
A marathon has been on my to-do list for 20 years.
cheese on toast
a piece of toast
two slices/rounds of toast
I'd like to propose a toast to the bride and groom.
The committee drank a toast to the new project.
The performance made her the toast of the festival.
The happy couple were toasted in champagne.
We toasted the success of the new company.
a toasted sandwich
Place under a hot grill until the nuts have toasted.
The government imposed a ban on tobacco advertising (= the advertising of cigarettes and all other forms of tobacco ).
There's a tobacconist's on the corner.
I've got a piano lesson later today.
The exams start a week today/today week (= one week from now).
Young people today face a very difficult future at work.
Today is her tenth birthday.
The review is in today's paper.
I'm leaving a week from today.
today's young people
I'll see you Thursday week.
She toddles down to the park most afternoons.
I locked the door and then toddled off to bed.
the big/little toe (= the largest/smallest toe)
I stubbed my toe on the step.
Can you touch your toes?(= by bending over while keeping your legs straight)
open-toed sandals
a three-toed sloth
a toe-curlingly awful movie
The firm is anxious to gain a toehold in Europe.
running togs
We grew up together.
Together they climbed the dark stairs.
Get all the ingredients together before you start cooking.
Stay close together —I don't want anyone to get lost.
He rubbed his hands together in satisfaction.
She nailed the two boards together.
Mix the sand and cement together.
Taken together, these factors are highly significant.
He has more money than the rest of us put together.
They split up after ten years together.
After the meeting the two sides in the dispute were no closer together.
They both spoke together.
(informal) All together now: 'Happy birthday to you…'
She sat for hours together just staring into space.
Together with the Johnsons, there were 12 of us in the villa.
I sent my order, together with a cheque for £40.
He's incredibly together for someone so young.
He toggled between the two windows.
This key toggles various views of the data.
They toiled up the hill in the blazing sun.
a life of hardship and toil
Have you flushed the toilet?
(BrE) I need to go to the toilet (= use the toilet).
a toilet seat
toilet facilities
Do you need the toilet?
Every flat has its own bathroom and toilet.
Who's in the toilet?
public toilets
Could you tell me where the ladies' toilet is, please?
a roll of toilet paper
a parking token
a £20 book/record/gift token
Collect six tokens for a free T-shirt.
Please accept this small gift as a token of our gratitude.
The government has only made a token gesture towards helping the unemployed.
There was one token woman on the committee (= a woman who is included in the group to make it look as if women are always included, although that is not true).
The government agreed to send a small token force to the area.
a one-day token strike
We charge only a token fee for use of the facilities.
Appointing one woman to the otherwise all-male staff could look like tokenism.
a tolerable degree of success
At times, the heat was barely tolerable.
He plays the piano tolerably (well).
She had no tolerance for jokes of any kind.
religious tolerance
a reputation for tolerance towards refugees
tolerance to cold
Tolerance to alcohol decreases with age.
They were working to a tolerance of 0.0001 of a centimetre.
He has a very tolerant attitude towards other religions.
The plants are tolerant of frost.
Their relationship was tolerated but not encouraged.
This sort of behaviour will not be tolerated.
She refused to tolerate being called a liar.
There is a limit to what one person can tolerate.
I don't know how you tolerate that noise!
She tolerated the chemotherapy well.
Few plants will tolerate sudden changes in temperature.
religious toleration
motorway tolls
a toll road/bridge
The official death toll has now reached 7 000.
the war's growing casualty toll
The Abbey bell tolled for those killed in the war.
The bell tolled the hour.
(figurative) The revolution tolled the death knell (= signalled the end) for the Russian monarchy.
a toll-free number
a bacon, lettuce and tomato sandwich
sliced tomatoes
tomato plants
I'm off now. See you tomorrow.
She's leaving tomorrow.
(especially BrE) They arrive a week tomorrow/tomorrow week (= after a week, starting from tomorrow).
Today is Tuesday, so tomorrow is Wednesday.
tomorrow afternoon/morning/night/evening
I'll see you the day after tomorrow.
The announcement will appear in tomorrow's newspapers.
I want it done by tomorrow.
Who knows what changes tomorrow may bring?
Tomorrow's workers will have to be more adaptable.
(informal) What have you got in this bag? It weighs a ton!
They've got tons of money.
I've still got tons to do.
He was caught doing a ton.
speaking in hushed/low/clipped/measured, etc. tones
a conversational tone
a tone of surprise
Don't speak to me in that tone of voice (= in that unpleasant way).
There's no need to take that tone with me—it's not my fault we're late.
The overall tone of the book is gently nostalgic.
She set the tone for the meeting with a firm statement of company policy.
Trust you to lower the tone of the conversation (= for example by telling a rude joke).
The article was moderate in tone and presented both sides of the case.
the full rich tone of the trumpet
the volume and tone controls on a car stereo
a carpet in warm tones of brown and orange
how to improve your muscle/skin tone
(BrE) the dialling tone
(NAmE) the dial tone
Please speak after the tone (= for example as an instruction on an answering machine).
a rising/falling tone
a bright-toned soprano
olive-toned skin
Massage will help to tone up loose skin under the chin.
a beautifully toned body
The beige of his jacket toned (in) with the cream shirt.
The language of the article will have to be toned down for the mass market.
Will you have dinner with me tonight?
It's cold tonight.
Here are tonight's football results.
Tonight will be cloudy.
a pair of tongs
He clicked his tongue to attract their attention.
She ran her tongue over her lips.
It's very rude to stick your tongue out at people.
a slice of ox tongue
None of the tribes speak the same tongue.
I tried speaking to her in her native tongue.
He has a sharp tongue.
(formal) I'll thank you to keep a civil tongue in your head (= speak politely).
sharp-tongued
a tongue of flame
a tongue-in-cheek remark
The offer was made almost tongue-in-cheek.
a gin and tonic
herbal tonics
skin tonic
The weekend break was just the tonic I needed.
a record grain harvest of 236m tonnes
a 17-tonne truck
I've had my tonsils out (= removed).
He's far too young to go on his own.
This is too large a helping for me/This helping is too large for me.
Is it too much to ask for a little quiet?
The dress was too tight for me.
It's too late to do anything about it now.
Accidents like this happen all too (= much too) often.
Can I come too?
When I've finished painting the bathroom, I'm going to do the kitchen too.
She broke her leg last week—and on her birthday too!
I'm not too sure if this is right.
I'm just going out—I won't be too long.
She's none too (= not very) clever.
'He did apologize eventually.' 'I should think so too!'
'She gave me the money.' 'About time too!'
'I'm afraid you were quoted the wrong price.' 'I thought it was too good to be true.'
garden tools
a cutting tool
power tools (= using electricity)
Always select the right tool for the job.
research tools like questionnaires
The computer is now an invaluable tool for the family doctor.
Some of them carried the guns which were the tools of their trade (= the things they needed to do their job).
The prime minister was an unwitting tool of the president.
The factory is not tooled up to produce this type of engine.
Moving your mouse over an icon displays a tooltip explaining its function.
She gave a sharp toot on her horn.
the sound of horns tooting
Toot your horn to let them know we're here.
I've just had a tooth out at the dentist's.
to brush/clean your teeth
tooth decay
She answered through clenched teeth (= opening her mouth only a little because of anger).
The cat sank its teeth into his finger.
the teeth on a saw
(BrE) I've got toothache.
(NAmE, BrE) I've got a toothache.
a toothed whale
a gap-toothed smile
a toothless old man
She gave us a toothless grin.
She was standing at the top of the stairs.
Write your name at the top.
The title is right at the top of the page.
He filled my glass to the top.
We climbed to the very top of the hill.
Snow was falling on the mountain tops.
(BrE) the top of the milk (= the cream that rises to the top of a bottle of milk)
The wind was blowing in the tops of the trees.
Can you polish the top of the table?
a desk top
He's at the top of his profession.
She is determined to make it to the top (= achieve fame or success).
They finished the season at the top of the league.
We have a lot of things to do, but packing is at the top of the list.
This decision came from the top.
I'll meet you at the top of Thorpe Street.
Where's the top of this pen?
a bottle with a screw top
I need a top to go with this skirt.
a tracksuit/pyjama/bikini top
Remove the green tops from the carrots.
It couldn't have cost more than £50, tops.
Among sports superstars she's (the) tops.
In the survey the Brits come out tops for humour.
She was so confused—her mind was spinning like a top.
He hasn't got much up top (= he isn't very intelligent).
He lives on the top floor.
She kept her passport in the top drawer.
He's one of the top players in the country.
She got the top job.
He finished top in the exam.
She got top marks for her essay.
They're top of the league.
The athletes are all on top form (= performing their best).
Welfare reform is a top priority for the government.
The car was travelling at top speed.
He's a top bloke.
Worldwide sales look set to top $1 billion.
The band topped the charts for five weeks with their first single.
fruit salad topped with cream
I'm afraid the other company has topped your offer (= offered more money).
Inflation topped out at 12%.
Top the car up with oil before you set off.
Top the oil up before you set off.
She relies on tips to top up her wages.
(BrE) I need to top up my mobile phone (= pay more money so you can make more calls).
Can I top you up?
They cruised along in top gear.
(figurative) Her career is moving into top gear.
Our equipment is top of the range.
our top-of-the-range model
This information has been classified top secret.
top-secret documents
a top-class performance
a top-down management style
Many people are upgrading their mobiles to top-end models.
the top-grossing movie of 2013
a top-level meeting
top-level tennis
a top-rated TV show
top-shelf magazines/DVDs
It is a top-shelf law firm.
a phone top-up (= to buy more time for calls)
Students will have to pay top-up fees (= fees that are above the basic level).
Can I give anyone a top-up?
a topaz ring
The main topic of conversation was Tom's new girlfriend.
The article covered a wide range of topics.
a topical joke/reference
topical events
a topless model
a topless bar (= where the female staff are topless )
to sunbathe topless
the topmost branches of the tree
a map showing the topography of the island
a topographical map/feature
The Canadian banking topology is relatively flat, with a few large banks controlling the entire market.
The pile of books toppled over.
He brushed past, toppling her from her stool.
a plot to topple the President
Everything's topsy-turvy in my life at the moment.
Shine the torch on the lock while I try to get the key in.
a flaming torch
the Olympic torch
(figurative) They struggled to keep the torch of idealism and hope alive.
The Tories (= the Tory party) lost the election.
the Tory party
Tory policies
the cries of a man in torment
She suffered years of mental torment after her son's death.
The flies were a terrible torment.
He was tormented by feelings of insecurity.
a golf/squash/tennis, etc. tournament
Her comments had torpedoed the deal.
In the heat they sank into a state of torpor.
After the winter rains, the stream becomes a raging torrent.
The rain was coming down in torrents.
a torrent of abuse/criticism
a torrent of words
a torrid love affair
a torrid summer
They face a torrid time in tonight's game.
tortuous language
the long, tortuous process of negotiating peace
Many of the refugees have suffered torture.
the use of torture
terrible instruments of torture
His confessions were made under torture.
I heard stories of gruesome tortures in prisons.
The interview was sheer torture from start to finish.
Many of the rebels were captured and tortured by secret police.
He was tortured into giving them the information.
He spent his life tortured by the memories of his childhood.
a tortured mind
I tossed the book aside and got up.
He tossed the ball to Anna.
He tossed Anna the ball.
She just tossed her head and walked off.
Branches were tossing in the wind.
I couldn't sleep but kept tossing and turning in bed all night.
Our boat was being tossed by the huge waves.
Drain the pasta and toss it in melted butter.
Let's toss a coin.
(especially BrE) There's only one ticket left—I'll toss you for it.
(BrE) We tossed up to see who went first.
(BrE) (figurative) He had to toss up between (= decide between) paying the rent or buying food.
The final result was decided on/by the toss of a coin.
to win/lose the toss (= to guess correctly/wrongly which side of a coin will face upwards when it lands on the ground after it has been thrown in the air)
She dismissed the question with a toss of her head.
a toss of 10 metres
'Have you decided on the colour yet?' ' It's a toss-up between the blue and the green.'
the total profit
This brought the total number of accidents so far this year to 113.
The club has a total membership of 300.
The room was in total darkness.
They wanted a total ban on handguns.
The evening was a total disaster.
I can't believe you'd tell a total stranger about it!
You got 47 points on the written examination and 18 on the oral, making a total of 65.
His businesses are worth a combined total of $3 billion.
Out of a total of 15 games, they only won 2.
The repairs came to over £500 in total (= including everything).
Imports totalled $1.5 billion last year.
Each student's points were totalled and entered in a list.
The seriousness of the situation is difficult to appreciate in its totality.
They come from totally different cultures.
I'm still not totally convinced that he knows what he's doing.
This behaviour is totally unacceptable.
(informal, especially NAmE) 'She's so cute!' 'Totally!' (= I agree)
(informal) It's a totally awesome experience.
We arrived, toting our bags and suitcases.
gun-toting soldiers
totemic animals
I didn't want to be low man on the totem pole for ever.
I totes love that song!
the tottering walls of the castle
(figurative) a tottering dictatorship
Don't touch that plate—it's hot!
Can you touch your toes?(= bend and reach them with your hands)
I touched him lightly on the arm.
He has hardly touched the ball all game.
(figurative) I must do some more work on that article—I haven't touched it all week.
Make sure the wires don't touch.
Don't let your coat touch the wet paint.
His coat was so long it was almost touching the floor.
I told you not to touch my things.
He said I kicked him, but I never touched him!
Her story touched us all deeply.
These are issues that touch us all.
You've hardly touched your food.
He hasn't touched the money his aunt left him.
No one can touch him when it comes to interior design.
The speedometer was touching 90.
Everything she touches turns to disaster.
His last two movies have been complete flops and now no studio will touch him.
A smile touched the corners of his mouth.
I've been driving for over 20 years and never had an accident—touch wood!
(figurative) Tornadoes touched down in Alabama and Louisiana.
In his speech he was only able to touch on a few aspects of the problem.
She was busy touching up her make-up in the mirror.
the sense of touch
The gentle touch of his hand on her shoulder made her jump.
All this information is readily available at the touch of a button (= by simply pressing a button).
This type of engraving requires a delicate touch.
The body was cold to the touch.
material with a smooth silky touch
He could not bear the touch of clothing on his sunburnt skin.
I spent the morning putting the finishing touches to the report.
Meeting them at the airport was a nice touch.
She prefers to answer any fan mail herself for a more personal touch.
Computer graphics will give your presentation the professional touch.
He couldn't find his magic touch with the ball today (= he didn't play well).
This meal is awful. I think I'm losing my touch (= my ability to do sth).
There was a touch of sarcasm in her voice.
The music was a touch too loud for my liking.
He kicked the ball into touch.
She's fine now, but it was touch-and-go for a while (= there was a possibility that she might die).
My lipstick needed a touch-up.
She was touched by their warm welcome.
She was touched by the plight of the refugees.
I was touched that he still remembered me.
He's a little touchy about his weight.
It was a touching story that moved many of us to tears.
Hand dryers are available with push button or touchless automatic operation.
the touchstone for quality
a tough childhood
It was a tough decision to make.
She's been having a tough time of it (= a lot of problems) lately.
He faces the toughest test of his leadership so far.
It can be tough trying to juggle a career and a family.
Don't be too tough on him—he was only trying to help.
It's about time teachers started to get tough with bullies.
The school takes a tough line on (= punishes severely) cheating.
a tough breed of cattle
He's not tough enough for a career in sales.
She's a tough cookie/customer (= sb who knows what they want and is not easily influenced by other people).
You think you're so tough, don't you?
He plays the tough guy in the movie.
a tough pair of shoes
The reptile's skin is tough and scaly.
It was tough on her being dropped from the team like that.
(ironic) 'I can't get it finished in time.' 'Tough!(= I don't feel sorry about it.) '
You're just going to have to tough it out.
toughened glass
The government is considering toughening up the law on censorship.
a walking/sightseeing, etc. tour
a coach tour of northern France
a tour operator (= a person or company that organizes tours)
We were given a guided tour (= by sb who knows about the place) of the palace.
a tour of inspection (= an official visit of a factory, classroom, etc. made by sb whose job is to check that everything is working as expected)
The band is currently on a nine-day tour of France.
The band is on tour in France.
a concert tour
The Prince will visit Boston on the last leg (= part) of his American tour.
The soldiers all used to do a six-month tour of duty in Northern Ireland.
He toured America with his one-man show.
She toured the country promoting her book.
We spent four weeks touring around Europe.
a cinematic tour de force
The area is heavily dependent on tourism.
the tourism industry
busloads of foreign tourists
a popular tourist attraction/destination/resort
the tourist industry/sector
Further information is available from the local tourist office.
Jersey is the most touristy of the islands.
a shop full of touristy souvenirs
a boy with blue eyes and tousled hair
She's being touted as the next leader of the party.
the problem of unlicensed taxi drivers touting for business at airports
He's busy touting his client's latest book around London publishers.
It was a lie, tout court.
The car broke down and we had to get somebody to give us a tow.
a tow truck
They were heading towards the German border.
She had her back towards me.
This is a first step towards political union.
towards the end of April
He was warm and tender towards her.
our attitude towards death
The money will go towards a new school building (= will help pay for it).
Help yourself to a clean towel.
a hand/bath towel (= a small/large towel)
a beach towel (= a large towel used for lying on in the sun)
a kitchen towel (= a piece of paper from a roll that you use to clean up liquid, etc. in the kitchen)
a towelling bathrobe
a clock/bell tower
the Tower of London
the Eiffel Tower
a television tower
a CD tower
The cliffs towered above them.
He towered over his classmates.
She towers over other dancers of her generation.
towering cliffs
a towering performance
a towering rage
a university town
They live in a rough part of town.
The nearest town is ten miles away.
We spent a month in the French town of Le Puy.
The whole town is talking about it.
Can you give me a lift into town?
I'll be in town next week if you want to meet.
He married a girl from out of town.
Pollution is just one of the disadvantages of living in the town.
an elegant Georgian town house
an industrial townscape
toxic chemicals/fumes/gases/substances
to dispose of toxic waste
Many pesticides are highly toxic.
substances with high levels of toxicity
Minor toxicities of this drug include nausea and vomiting.
cuddly/soft toys
The children were playing happily with their toys.
executive toys
His latest toy is the electric drill he bought last week.
a toy car
toy soldiers
a toy poodle
I did briefly toy with the idea of living in France.
He kept toying nervously with his pen.
She hardly ate a thing, just toyed with a piece of cheese on her plate.
We finally traced him to an address in Chicago.
She could trace her family tree back to the 16th century.
The leak was eventually traced to a broken seal.
The police traced the call (= used special electronic equipment to find out who made the telephone call) to her ex-husband's number.
Her book traces the town's history from Saxon times to the present day.
She traced a line in the sand.
He traced the route on the map.
A tear traced a path down her cheek.
It's exciting to discover traces of earlier civilizations.
Police searched the area but found no trace of the escaped prisoners.
Years of living in England had eliminated all trace of her American accent.
The ship had vanished without (a) trace.
The post-mortem revealed traces of poison in his stomach.
She spoke without a trace of bitterness.
The trace showed a normal heart rhythm.
The police ran a trace on the call.
Most telephone calls are traceable.
a muddy track through the forest
We followed the bear's tracks in the snow.
tyre tracks
railway/railroad tracks
India has thousands of miles of track.
a running track
a Formula One Grand Prix track (= for motor racing)
Police are on the track of (= searching for) the thieves.
She is on the fast track to promotion (= will get it quickly).
a track from their latest album
a sixteen track recording studio
She sang on the backing track.
hunters tracking and shooting bears
We continued tracking the plane on our radar.
The research project involves tracking the careers of 400 graduates.
The camera eventually tracked away.
Don't track mud on my clean floor.
The police have so far failed to track down the attacker.
He has a proven track record in marketing.
the digestive tract
a nerve tract
vast tracts of forest
He spent six weeks in traction after he broke his leg.
international/foreign trade
Trade between the two countries has increased.
the international trade in oil
the arms/drugs, etc. trade
the building/food/tourist, etc. trade
He works in the retail trade (= selling goods in shops/stores).
They offer discounts to the trade (= to people who are working in the same business).
a trade magazine/journal
Trade was very good last month.
He was a carpenter by trade.
When she leaves school, she wants to learn a trade.
She was surrounded by the tools of her trade (= everything she needs to do her job).
The firm openly traded in arms.
Early explorers traded directly with the Indians.
trading partners (= countries that you trade with)
Our products are now traded worldwide.
The firm has now ceased trading.
They traded as 'Walker and Son'.
Shares were trading at under half their usual value.
to trade secrets/insults/jokes
She traded her posters for his CD.
I wouldn't mind trading places with her for a day.
Shoppers are trading down and looking for bargains.
He traded in his old car for a new Mercedes.
They were attempting to trade off inflation against unemployment.
They trade on people's insecurity to sell them insurance.
We're going to trade up to a larger house.
You could get them under the Trade Descriptions Act for that!
The recipe for their drink is a closely guarded trade secret.
the history of trade unionism
the trade-in value of a car
Do you have a trade-in?
a trade-off between increased production and a reduction in quality
'Big Mac' is McDonald's best-known trademark.
They have trademarked the name in the US and the UK.
small/independent/local traders
bond/currency traders
It's a tragedy that she died so young.
Tragedy struck the family when their son was hit by a car and killed.
The whole affair ended in tragedy.
Shakespeare's tragedies
Greek tragedy
traditional dress
It's traditional in America to eat turkey on Thanksgiving Day.
traditional methods of teaching
Their marriage is very traditional.
The festival is traditionally held in May.
Housework has traditionally been regarded as women's work.
new laws on Sunday trading (= shops being open on Sundays)
Supermarkets everywhere reported excellent trading in the run-up to Christmas.
Shares worth $8 million changed hands during a day of hectic trading.
religious/cultural, etc. traditions
This region is steeped in tradition.
The company has a long tradition of fine design.
The British are said to love tradition (= to want to do things in the way they have always been done).
They broke with tradition (= did things differently) and got married quietly.
By tradition, children play tricks on 1 April.
There's a tradition in our family that we have a party on New Year's Eve.
He's a politician in the tradition of (= similar in style to) Kennedy.
heavy/rush-hour traffic
local/through traffic
There's always a lot of traffic at this time of day.
They were stuck in traffic and missed their flight.
a plan to reduce traffic congestion
traffic police (= who control traffic on a road or stop drivers who are breaking the law)
The delay is due simply to the volume of traffic.
transatlantic traffic
air traffic control
commuter/freight/passenger traffic
the traffic of goods between one country and another
the computer servers that manage global Internet traffic
the traffic in firearms
The women had been trafficked and forced into prostitution.
The cartel is now trafficking in illegal immigrants.
Smugglers were trafficking arms across the border to the rebels.
to traffic in drugs
a drugs trafficker
drug trafficking
human trafficking (= moving people illegally in order to make them work in bad conditions and without proper payment)
We were stuck in a traffic jam.
Turn left at the traffic lights.
He was killed in a tragic accident at the age of 24.
Cuts in the health service could have tragic consequences for patients.
It would be tragic if her talent remained unrecognized.
a tragic actor/hero
Tragically, his wife was killed in a car accident.
He died tragically young.
a trail of blood
tourists who leave a trail of litter everywhere they go
The hurricane left a trail of destruction behind it.
The hounds were following the fox's trail.
The police are still on the trail of the escaped prisoner.
Fortunately the trail was still warm (= clear and easy to follow).
The trail had gone cold.
a trail through the forest
a tourist trail (= of famous buildings)
politicians on the campaign trail (= travelling around to attract support)
A jeep trailing a cloud of dust was speeding in my direction.
I trailed my hand in the water as the boat moved along.
The bride's dress trailed behind her.
The kids trailed around after us while we shopped for clothes.
United were trailing 2–0 at half-time.
We were trailing by five points.
This country is still trailing badly in scientific research.
The Conservatives are trailing Labour in the opinion polls.
The police trailed Dale for days.
trailing plants
He had tears trailing down his cheeks.
His voice trailed away to nothing.
'I only hope…', she trailed off.
trailblazing scientific research
a car towing a trailer with a boat on it
a trailer park (= an area where trailers are parked and used as homes)
to get on/off a train
I like travelling by train.
a passenger/commuter/goods/freight train
to catch/take/get the train to London
a train journey/driver
You have to change trains at Reading.
a camel train
His death set in motion a train of events that led to the outbreak of war.
badly trained staff
They train dogs to sniff out drugs.
He trained as a teacher before becoming an actor.
All members of the team have trained in first aid.
Sue is training to be a doctor.
athletes training for the Olympics
She trains horses.
He trains the Olympic team.
An expert with a trained eye will spot the difference immediately.
You can train your mind to think positively.
Roses had been trained around the door.
She gives a train wreck of a performance in the movie.
This guy is a train wreck.
a management trainee
a trainee teacher
a pair of trainers
teacher trainers
a racehorse trainer
Her trainer had decided she shouldn't run in the race.
staff training
Few candidates had received any training in management.
a training course
to be in training for a race
a police training college
personality traits
He was seen as a traitor to the socialist cause.
She denied that she had turned traitor (= become a traitor ).
a missile's trajectory
(figurative) My career seemed to be on a downward trajectory.
a tram route
the tramp of marching feet
We had a long tramp home.
We tramped across the wet grass to look at the statue.
the sound of tramping feet
She's been tramping the streets looking for a job.
People were trampled underfoot in the rush for the exit.
He was trampled to death by a runaway horse.
The campers had trampled the corn down.
Don't trample on the flowers!
The government is trampling on the views of ordinary people.
to go/fall into a trance
the transcendence of God
a transcendental experience
The photochemical reactions transform the light into electrical impulses.
A new colour scheme will transform your bedroom.
It was an event that would transform my life.
a tranquil scene
the tranquil waters of the lake
She led a tranquil life in the country.
She's on (= is taking) tranquillizers.
transatlantic
transcontinental
transplant
transform
foods that are low in trans-fatty acids
buyers and sellers transacting business
financial transactions between companies
commercial transactions
the transaction of government business
a transatlantic flight
a transatlantic alliance
to speak with a transatlantic accent
a transcontinental railway/railroad
Clerks transcribe everything that is said in court.
The interview was recorded and then transcribed.
How many official documents have been transcribed into Braille for blind people?
a piano piece transcribed for the guitar
a transcript of the interview
errors made in transcription
phonetic transcription
The full transcription of the interview is attached.
This dictionary gives phonetic transcriptions of all headwords.
The film studio is transferring to Hollywood.
(especially NAmE) If I spend a semester in Madrid, will my credits transfer?
How can I transfer money from my bank account to his?
The patient was transferred to another hospital.
(especially NAmE) I couldn't transfer all my credits from junior college.
Children usually transfer to secondary school at 11 or 12.
He transferred to UCLA after his freshman year.
Ten employees are being transferred from the sales department.
Joe had already transferred his affections from Lisa to Cleo.
This disease is rarely transferred from mother to baby (= so that the baby has it as well as the mother).
He transferred the property to his son.
He transferred to Everton for £6 million.
He was transferred from Spurs to Arsenal for a huge fee.
I transferred at Bahrain for a flight to Singapore.
Passengers are transferred from the airport to the hotel by taxi.
You can transfer data to a memory stick in a few seconds.
The novel does not transfer well to the movies.
electronic data transfer
the transfer of currency from one country to another
He has asked for a transfer to the company's Paris branch.
After the election there was a swift transfer of power.
It was the first goal he had scored since his transfer from Chelsea.
a transfer fee
to be on the transfer list (= available to join another club)
The transfer from the airport to the hotel is included in the price.
This ticket is not transferable (= it may only be used by the person who has bought it).
We aim to provide our students with transferable skills (= that can be used in different jobs).
the transference of heat from the liquid to the container
Luisa stood transfixed with shock.
The way in which we work has undergone a complete transformation in the past decade.
What a transformation! You look great.
the country's transformation from dictatorship to democracy
a lack of transformation in the private sector
The project badly needs a transfusion of cash.
to transfuse blood into a patient
transgender issues
transgenic crops
the transient nature of speech
a city with a large transient population (= of students, temporary workers, etc.)
the transience of human life
the transition from school to full-time work
He will remain head of state during the period of transition to democracy.
We need to ensure a smooth transition between the old system and the new one.
This course is useful for students who are in transition (= in the process of changing) from one training programme to another.
a transitional period
a transitional government
They transitioned from print journalism to the digital world.
They decided to transition the farm to organic.
The cost includes transit.
goods damaged in transit
transit times
the transit lounge at Vienna airport
a transit visa (= one that allows a person to pass through a country but not to stay there)
the city's mass/public transit system
The ship is currently transiting the Gulf of Mexico.
In 'She wrote a letter', the verb 'wrote' is transitive and the word 'letter' is the direct object.
The verb is being used transitively.
the transitory nature of his happiness
He translated the letter into English.
Her books have been translated into 24 languages.
Can you help me translate this legal jargon into plain English?
'Suisse' had been wrongly translated as 'Sweden'.
I don't speak Greek so Dina offered to translate for me.
My work involves translating from German.
Most poetry does not translate well.
The Welsh name translates as 'Land's End'.
It's time to translate words into action.
I hope all the hard work will translate into profits.
the various words and gestures that we translate as love
She works as a translator of technical texts.
an error in translation
He specializes in translation from Danish into English.
The book loses something in translation.
The irony is lost in translation.
The usual translation of 'glasnost' is 'openness'.
a rough translation (= not translating everything exactly)
a literal translation (= following the original words exactly)
a free translation (= not following the original words exactly)
a word-for-word translation
I have only read Tolstoy in translation.
a copy of Dryden's translation of the Aeneid
the translation of theory into practice
the transmission of the disease
the risk of transmission
the transmission of computer data along telephone lines
a break in transmission (= of a radio or television broadcast) due to a technical fault
a live transmission from Sydney
signals transmitted from a satellite
The ceremony was transmitted live by satellite to over fifty countries.
a short-wave radio that can transmit as well as receive
sexually transmitted diseases
Parents can unwittingly transmit their own fears to their children.
Emphasis was placed on the school as a transmitter of moral values.
It was once thought that lead could be transmuted into gold.
transnational corporations
an overhead transparency (= used with an overhead projector )
They were shocked by the transparency of his lies.
a need for greater transparency in legal documents
The police reforms will ensure greater transparency and accountability.
The insect's wings are almost transparent.
a man of transparent honesty
a transparent attempt to buy votes
Am I that transparent?(= are my intentions that obvious?)
a campaign to make official documents more transparent
transparently obvious
It transpired that the gang had had a contact inside the bank.
This story, it later transpired, was untrue.
You're meeting him tomorrow? Let me know what transpires.
Surgeons have successfully transplanted a liver into a four-year-old boy.
Patients often reject transplanted organs.
Japanese production methods have been transplanted into some British factories.
liver transplantation
the transplantation of entire communities overseas
to have a heart transplant
a transplant operation
a shortage of suitable kidneys for transplant
There is always a chance that the body will reject the transplant.
the transportation industry
public transportation (= the system of buses, trains, etc. provided for people to travel from one place to another)
The city is providing free transportation to the stadium from downtown.
the transportation of heavy loads
transportation costs
air/freight/road transport
the government's transport policy
Applicants must have their own transport.
Transport to and from the airport is included in the price.
His bike is his only means of transport.
The goods were damaged during transport.
controls on the transport of nuclear waste
to be in transports of delight
to transport goods/passengers
The seeds are transported by the wind.
Blood transports oxygen around the body.
The book transports you to another world.
British convicts were transported to Australia for life.
a car transporter
The director transposes Shakespeare's play from 16th century Venice to present-day England.
A transverse bar joins the two posts.
a fox with its leg in a trap
A trap was laid, with fresh bait.
She had set a trap for him and he had walked straight into it.
the unemployment trap
Some women see marriage as a trap.
a pony and trap
Shut your trap!(= a rude way of telling sb to be quiet)
to keep your trap shut (= to not tell a secret)
Help! I'm trapped!
They were trapped in the burning building.
We became trapped by the rising floodwater.
He was trapped in an unhappy marriage.
I feel trapped in my job.
I trapped my coat in the car door.
The pain was caused by a trapped nerve.
Solar panels trap energy from the sun.
The escaped prisoners were eventually trapped in an underground garage and recaptured.
Raccoons used to be trapped for their fur.
He felt he had been trapped into accepting the terms of the contract.
a trapeze artist
They enjoyed all the trappings of wealth.
What's this trash you're watching?
(especially BrE) He's talking trash (= nonsense).
white trash (= poor white people, especially those living in the southern US)
The band was famous for trashing hotel rooms.
I'm leaving my old toys here—if you don't want them, just trash them.
trashy TV shows
She felt exhausted after the traumas of recent weeks.
The patient suffered severe brain trauma.
a traumatic experience
Divorce can be traumatic for everyone involved.
traumatic amnesia
to travel around the world
I go to bed early if I'm travelling the next day.
I love travelling by train.
We always travel first class.
We travelled to California for the wedding.
When I finished college I went travelling for six months (= spent time visiting different places).
He travelled the length of the Nile in a canoe.
I travel 40 miles to work every day.
to travel at 50 miles an hour
Messages travel along the spine from the nerve endings to the brain.
News travels fast these days.
Some wines do not travel well.
Some writing travels badly in translation.
Their car can really travel!
air/rail/space, etc. travel
travel expenses
The job involves a considerable amount of foreign travel.
the travel industry
travel sickness
a travel bag/clock (= for use when travelling)
The pass allows unlimited travel on all public transport in the city.
The novel is based on his travels in India.
When are you off on your travels (= going travelling)?
He works in a travel agent's.
a much-travelled man
The path was steeper and less travelled than the previous one.
She is a frequent traveller to Belgium.
He passed the time chatting with fellow travellers.
New Age travellers
a travelling circus/exhibition/performer, etc.
the travelling public
(BrE) travelling people (= people who have no fixed home, especially those living in a community that moves from place to place, also known as 'travellers')
a travelling clock
The job requires a lot of travelling.
a travelling companion
The trial was a travesty of justice.
She trawled the shops for bargains.
The police are trawling through their files for similar cases.
A quick trawl through the newspapers yielded five suitable job adverts.
He brought her breakfast in bed on a tray.
She came in with a tray of drinks.
a tea tray
a seed tray (= for planting seeds in)
a cat's litter tray
an act of treachery
He was weak, cowardly and treacherous.
lying, treacherous words
The ice on the roads made driving conditions treacherous.
a treacly brown liquid
treacly music
Ouch! You trod on my toe!
Careful you don't tread in that puddle.
Don't tread ash into the carpet!
The wine is still made by treading grapes in the traditional way.
Few people had trod this path before.
He was treading quietly and cautiously.
The government will have to tread very carefully in handling this issue.
A restaurant has to tread the tricky path between maintaining quality and keeping prices down.
I heard his heavy tread on the stairs.
The tyres were worn below the legal limit of 1.6 mm of tread.
I'd like to escape the office treadmill.
a treasonable act
a pirate's treasure chest
the priceless art treasures of the Uffizi Gallery
I treasure his friendship.
This ring is my most treasured possession.
The area is a treasure house of archaeological relics.
to treat people with respect/consideration/suspicion, etc.
Treat your keyboard with care and it should last for years.
My parents still treat me like a child.
He was treated as a hero on his release from prison.
I decided to treat his remark as a joke.
The question is treated in more detail in the next chapter.
She was treated for sunstroke.
The condition is usually treated with drugs and a strict diet.
to treat crops with insecticide
wood treated with preservative
She treated him to lunch.
Don't worry about the cost—I'll treat you.
I'm going to treat myself to a new pair of shoes.
a treatable infection
The crowd were treated to a superb display of tennis.
We took the kids to the zoo as a special treat.
When I was young chocolate was a treat.
Let's go out for lunch— my treat (= I will pay).
the Treaty of Rome
a peace treaty
to draw up/sign/ratify a treaty
Under the terms of the treaty, La Rochelle was ceded to the English.
He is receiving treatment for shock.
She is responding well to treatment.
to require hospital/medical treatment
There are various treatments available for this condition.
Guests at the health spa receive a range of beauty treatments.
the brutal treatment of political prisoners
Certain city areas have been singled out for special treatment.
Shakespeare's treatment of madness in 'King Lear'
a sewage treatment plant
an effective treatment for dry rot
to turn up the treble on the stereo
The victory completed a treble for the horse's owner.
Cases of food poisoning have trebled in the last two years.
He trebled his earnings in two years.
Capital expenditure was treble the 2013 level.
a treble voice
the treble clef (= the symbol in music showing that the notes following it are high)
an oak tree
to plant a tree
to chop/cut down a tree
They followed a path through the trees.
a treeless plain
birds nesting in the treetops
It's a long trek into town.
I hate having to trek up that hill with all the groceries.
We went trekking in Nepal.
During the expedition, they trekked ten to thirteen hours a day.
My legs were trembling with fear.
Her voice trembled with excitement.
He opened the letter with trembling hands.
leaves trembling in the breeze
I trembled at the thought of having to make a speech.
a tremble of fear
She tried to control the trembling in her legs.
a tremendous explosion
A tremendous amount of work has gone into the project.
It was a tremendous experience.
tremendously exciting
an earth tremor
There was a slight tremor in his voice.
a tremulous voice
He was in a state of tremulous excitement.
life in the trenches
trench warfare
economic/social/political trends
There is a growing trend towards earlier retirement.
current trends in language teaching
a downward/an upward trend in sales
You seem to have set (= started) a new trend.
This trend is being reversed (= is going in the opposite direction).
One region is attempting to buck (= oppose or resist) the trend of economic decline.
The underlying trend of inflation is still upwards.
trendy clothes
young trendies from art college
He told me I was trespassing on private land.
I mustn't trespass on your time any longer.
The notice read: 'Trespassers will be prosecuted.'
tricycle
triangular
a murder trial
He's on trial for murder.
She will stand trial/go on trial for fraud.
The men were arrested but not brought to trial.
The case never came to trial.
She is awaiting trial on corruption charges.
He did not receive a fair trial.
She was detained without trial.
The new drug is undergoing clinical trials.
She agreed to employ me for a trial period.
The system was introduced on a trial basis for one month.
a trial separation (= of a couple whose marriage is in difficulties)
We had the machine on trial for a week.
a trial of strength (= a contest to see who is stronger)
Olympic trials
horse trials
the trials and tribulations of married life
She was a sore trial to her family at times.
(BrE) a right-angled triangle
(NAmE) a right triangle
Cut the sandwiches into triangles.
a love triangle
a triangular contest in an election
tribal art
tribal leaders
tribes living in remote areas of the Amazonian rainforest
He had a sudden outburst against the whole tribe of actors.
a tribe of cats
One or two of the grandchildren will be there, but not the whole tribe.
the tribulations of modern life
an international war crimes tribunal
a military tribunal
a tributary stream
At her funeral her oldest friend paid tribute to her life and work.
This book is a fitting tribute to the bravery of the pioneers.
floral tributes (= gifts of flowers at a funeral)
His recovery is a tribute to the doctors' skill.
They had to think of a trick to get past the guards.
The kids are always playing tricks on their teacher.
One of the problems of old age is that your memory can start to play tricks on you.
Was there somebody standing there or was it a trick of the light?
He amused the kids with conjuring tricks.
a card trick
The trick is to pick the animal up by the back of its neck.
He used the old trick of attacking in order to defend himself.
I won six tricks in a row.
I'd been tricked and I felt stupid.
He managed to trick his way past the security guards.
He tricked me into lending him £100.
She was tricked out of her life savings.
It was a trick question (= one to which the answer seems easy but actually is not).
It's all done using trick photography (= photography that uses clever techniques to show things that do not actually exist or are impossible).
a trick knee
a tricky situation
Getting it to fit exactly is a tricky business.
The equipment can be tricky to install.
Tears were trickling down her cheeks.
Trickle some oil over the salad.
People began trickling into the hall.
News is starting to trickle out.
a steady trickle of visitors
I don't know if I can come but I'll try.
What are you trying to do?
I tried hard not to laugh.
She tried her best to solve the problem.
Just try your hardest.
I'll try and get you a new one tomorrow.
Have you tried this new coffee? It's very good.
'Would you like to try some raw fish?' 'Why not? I'll try anything once!'
Have you ever tried windsurfing?
Try these shoes for size —they should fit you.
She tried the door, but it was locked.
John isn't here. Try phoning his home number.
He was tried for murder.
The case was tried before a jury.
Children often try it on with new teachers.
Try the shoes on before you buy them.
She's trying out for the school play.
They're trying out a new presenter for the show.
I doubt they'll be able to help but it's worth a try (= worth asking them).
Why don't you have a try at convincing him?
(NAmE) The US negotiators decided to make another try at reaching a settlement.
I don't think I'll be any good at tennis, but I'll give it a try.
(informal) 'What's that behind you?' ' Nice try (= at making me turn round), but you'll have to do better than that!'
to score a try
She seemed a trifle anxious.
$1 000 is a mere trifle to her.
He is not a person to be trifled with.
trifling details
to pull/squeeze the trigger
He kept his finger on the trigger.
The trigger for the strike was the closure of yet another factory.
nuclear triggers
Nuts can trigger off a violent allergic reaction.
to trigger an alarm
trilateral talks
He is trilingual in English, Spanish and Danish.
trilingual education
a trilingual menu
A phone trilled on the desk.
The canary was trilling away happily.
'How wonderful!' she trilled.
to trim your hair
to trim a hedge (back)
(figurative) The training budget had been trimmed by £10 000.
Trim any excess fat off the meat.
I trimmed two centimetres off the hem of the skirt.
gloves trimmed with fur
Using the diet he's trimmed down from 90 kilos to 70.
a wash and trim
The hedge needs a trim.
The car is available with black or red trim (= the colour of the seats).
a blue jacket with a white trim
She has kept very trim.
a trim figure
a trim garden
the first trimester of pregnancy
The school year is divided into three trimesters.
a hedge trimmer
a splendid feast of turkey with all the trimmings
hedge trimmings
a white blouse with blue trimming
a trio for piano, oboe and bassoon
Did you have a good trip?
We went on a trip to the mountains.
a day trip (= lasting a day)
a boat/coach trip
a business/school/shopping trip
They took a trip down the river.
We had to make several trips to bring all the equipment over.
an acid (= LSD) trip
She tripped and fell.
Someone will trip over that cable.
Be careful you don't trip up on the step.
As I passed, he stuck out a leg and tried to trip me up.
She said goodbye and tripped off along the road.
to trip a switch
Any intruders will trip the alarm.
Read the questions carefully, because the examiners sometimes try to trip you up.
a triple heart bypass operation
a triple alliance
They're showing a triple bill of horror movies (= three horror movies one after the other).
The amount of alcohol in his blood was triple the legal maximum.
Its population is about triple that of Venice.
Output should triple by next year.
a day tripper
one of the greatest triumphs of modern science
It was a personal triumph over her old rival.
a shout of triumph
The winning team returned home in triumph.
Her arrest was a triumph of international cooperation.
As is usual in this kind of movie, good triumphs over evil in the end.
France triumphed 3–0 in the final.
They emerged triumphant in the September election.
a triumphant smile
We spent the whole evening discussing domestic trivia.
a trivia quiz
a trivial detail
I know it sounds trivial, but I'm worried about it.
I'll try to fix it—but it's not trivial (= it may be difficult to fix).
I don't want to waste time on trivialities.
His speech was one of great triviality.
He trolled the Internet for advice on the disease.
Both candidates have been trolling for votes.
a shopping/supermarket/luggage trolley
a drinks trolley
a tea trolley
I can't remember what happened as I got trollied.
They announced the withdrawal of 12 000 troops from the area.
The president decided to send in the troops.
Russian troops
(figurative) A troop of guests was moving towards the house.
troop movements (= of soldiers)
After lunch we all trooped down to the beach.
the trope of the mad scientist in horror movies
We don't need a trophy building for our business.
tropical fish
tropical Africa
a tropical island
She trotted her pony around the field.
The children trotted into the room.
The guide led the way and we trotted along behind him.
They trotted out the same old excuses for the lack of jobs in the area.
The horse slowed to a trot.
The girl broke into a trot and disappeared around the corner.
We have trouble getting staff.
He could make trouble for me if he wanted to.
The trouble with you is you don't really want to work.
We've never had much trouble with vandals around here.
Her trouble is she's incapable of making a decision.
The trouble is (= what is difficult is) there aren't any trains at that time.
The only trouble is we won't be here then.
No, I don't know his number—I have quite enough trouble remembering my own.
financial troubles
She was on the phone for an hour telling me her troubles.
Our troubles aren't over yet.
back trouble
I've been having trouble with my knee.
mechanical trouble
The company ran into trouble early on, when a major order was cancelled.
A yachtsman got into trouble off the coast and had to be rescued.
If I don't get this finished in time, I'll be in trouble.
He's in trouble with the police.
My brother was always getting me into trouble with my parents.
The police were expecting trouble after the match.
If you're not in by midnight, there'll be trouble (= I'll be very angry).
He had to throw out a few drunks who were causing trouble in the bar.
I don't want to put you to a lot of trouble.
I'll get it if you like, that will save you the trouble of going out.
Making your own yogurt is more trouble than it's worth.
She went to a lot of trouble to find the book for me.
He thanked me for my trouble and left.
Nothing is ever too much trouble for her (= she's always ready to help).
I can call back later—it's no trouble (= I don't mind).
I hope the children weren't too much trouble.
What is it that's troubling you?
Sorry to trouble you, but could you tell me the time?
I don't want to trouble the doctor with such a small problem.
(formal) Could I trouble you to open the window, please?
He rushed into the room without troubling to knock.
My back's been troubling me again.
She looked into his troubled face.
a troubled marriage
We live in troubled times.
a troublesome cough/child/problem
There have been peaks and troughs in the long-term trend of unemployment.
Brazil trounced Italy 5–1 in the final.
a pair of grey trousers
I was still in short trousers (= still only a boy) at the time.
He dropped his trousers.
trouser pockets
rainbow trout
trout fishing
Shall we have trout for dinner?
A number of pupils have been truanting regularly.
to call/break a truce
a truck driver
a cattle truck
a delivery/garbage/farm truck
trucking companies
He trudged the last two miles to the town.
The men trudged up the hill, laden with supplies.
Indicate whether the following statements are true or false.
Is it true she's leaving?
All the rumours turned out to be true.
That's not strictly (= completely) true.
The novel is based on a true story.
His excuse just doesn't ring (= sound) true.
Unfortunately, these findings do not hold true (= are not valid) for women and children.
The music is dull and uninspiring, and the same is true of the acting.
You never spoke a truer word (= used to emphasize that you agree with what sb has just said).
the true face of war (= what it is really like rather than what people think it is like)
The true cost of these experiments to the environment will not be known for years to come.
He reveals his true character to very few people.
It was true love between them.
He's a true gentleman.
The painting is a masterpiece in the truest sense of the word.
He is credited with inventing the first true helicopter.
It's true that he could do the job, but would he fit in with the rest of the team?
'We could get it cheaper.' 'True, but would it be as good?'
a true friend
She has always been true to herself (= done what she thought was good, right, etc.).
He was true to his word (= did what he promised to do).
The movie is not true to the book.
His aim was true (= he hit the target).
The arrow flew straight and true to the target.
He had spoken truer than he knew.
true-blue Tory voters
a true-blue Californian
I'm truly sorry that things had to end like this.
a truly memorable occasion
a truly democratic system of government
(informal) Well, really and truly, things were better than expected.
Steve came first, Robin second, and yours truly came last.
By that time we were well and truly lost.
I played a trump and won the trick.
What's trumps?
Clubs are trumps.
She was arrested on a trumped-up charge.
to trumpet somebody's achievements
Their marriage was trumpeted as the wedding of the year.
My article was published in truncated form.
A train trundled across the bridge.
A long list of reasons was trundled out to justify their demands.
Her trust in him was unfounded.
a partnership based on trust
It has taken years to earn their trust.
If you put your trust in me, I will not let you down.
She will not betray your trust (= do sth that you have asked her not to do).
He was appointed to a position of trust (= a job involving a lot of responsibility, because people trust him).
He set up a trust for his children.
The money will be held in trust until she is 18.
Our fees depend on the value of the trust.
a charitable trust
anti-trust laws
She trusts Alan implicitly.
He trusted her judgement.
Don't trust what the newspapers say!
I trust (that) you have no objections to our proposals?
Trust John to forget Sue's birthday!
She needs to trust more in her own abilities.
I stumbled along in the dark, trusting to luck to find the right door.
I'd trust her with my life.
a trusty friend
She spent years touring Europe with her trusty old camera.
If you're too trusting, other people will take advantage of you.
Do you think she's telling the truth?
We are determined to get at (= discover) the truth.
The truth (of the matter) is we can't afford to keep all the staff on.
I don't think you are telling me the whole truth about what happened.
There is no truth in the rumours.
There is not a grain of truth in what she says.
universal truths
She was forced to face up to a few unwelcome truths about her family.
To tell you the truth, I'll be glad to get home.
They were less than truthful about their part in the crime.
Are you being completely truthful with me?
a truthful answer
She answered all their questions truthfully.
These are trying times for all of us.
Tsar Nicholas II
(BrE) a drugs tsar
(NAmE) a drug tsar
So you were out drinking again last night were you? Tsk tsk!
1 tsp chilli powder
Anyway, TTFN, and hopefully I'll have plenty of time to write when I get back.
OK, I've gotta fly. Bye. TTYL.
There were tubs of flowers on the balcony.
a tub of margarine
They found her lying in the tub.
a tubal pregnancy
a bike's inner tube
the cardboard tube from the centre of a toilet roll
a tube of toothpaste
a tube of lager
bronchial tubes
a tube station/train
We came by tube.
a tubercular infection
a length of copper tubing
a tubular metal chair
She tucked up her skirt and waded into the river.
The sheets should be tucked in neatly (= around the bed).
Tuck the flap of the envelope in.
She tucked her hair (up) under her cap.
He sat with his legs tucked up under him.
The letter had been tucked under a pile of papers.
She tucked a blanket around his legs.
The shop is tucked away down a backstreet.
She kept his letters tucked away in a drawer.
They have thousands of pounds tucked away in a savings account.
I tucked the children in and said goodnight.
Come on, tuck in everyone!
He was tucking into a huge plateful of pasta.
Tudor architecture
a tufted carpet
a tufted duck
She tugged at his sleeve to get his attention.
(figurative) a sad story that tugs at your heartstrings (= makes you feel sad)
The baby was tugging her hair.
He tugged the door open.
He tugged the hat down over his head.
I felt a tug at my sleeve.
She gave her sister's hair a sharp tug.
a tug of attraction
She received private tuition in French.
He slipped and tumbled down the stairs.
The scaffolding came tumbling down.
(figurative) World records tumbled at the last Olympics.
The price of oil is still tumbling.
A group of noisy children tumbled out of the bus.
Thick golden curls tumbled down over her shoulders.
The jockey took a nasty tumble at the third fence.
Share prices took a sharp tumble following news of the merger.
a tumble of blond curls
Mum, my tummy hurts.
to have (a) tummy ache
a tummy bug/upset (= an illness when you feel sick or vomit )
a brain tumour
a benign/malignant (= harmless/harmful) tumour
tumultuous applause
a tumultuous reception/welcome
the tumultuous years of the English Civil War
fishing for tuna
tuna steaks
a tin/can of tuna in vegetable oil
He was humming a familiar tune.
I don't know the title but I recognize the tune.
It was a catchy tune (= song).
a football song sung to the tune of (= using the tune of) 'When the saints go marching in'
to tune a guitar
The radio was tuned (in) to the BBC World Service.
(informal) Stay tuned for the news coming up next.
His speech was tuned to what the audience wanted to hear.
When she started talking about her job, he just tuned out.
The orchestra was tuning up as we entered the hall.
The resort is tuned in to the tastes of young and old alike.
a railway/railroad tunnel
The engineers had to tunnel through solid rock.
The rescuers tunnelled their way in to the trapped miners.
turbaned Sikhs
turbocharged engines
We experienced severe turbulence during the flight.
a short and turbulent career in politics
a turbulent part of the world
The aircraft is designed to withstand turbulent conditions.
a turbulent sea/storm (= caused by turbulent water/air)
a turbulent crowd
dog turds
newly laid turf
(especially BrE) the hallowed turf of Wimbledon, etc. (= the grass used for playing a sport on)
He feels more confident on home turf.
He was turfed out of the party.
The boys were turfed off the bus.
a vicious turf war between rival gangs of drug dealers
the turgid waters of the Thames
roast turkey
His latest movie is a real turkey.
emotional/mental/political turmoil
His statement threw the court into turmoil.
Her mind was in (a) turmoil.
The wheels of the car began to turn.
I can't get the screw to turn.
He turned the key in the lock.
She turned the wheel sharply to the left.
We turned and headed for home.
She turned to look at me.
He turned back to his work.
I turned away and looked out of the window.
He turned his back to the wall.
She turned her head away.
She turned the chair on its side to repair it.
Turn the sweater inside out before you wash it.
He turned into a narrow street.
The man turned the corner and disappeared.
I turned the car into the car park.
The road turns to the left after the church.
Police turned water cannon on the rioters.
He turned the gun on himself.
She looked at him then turned her attention back to me.
His thoughts turned to his dead wife.
The tide is turning—we'd better get back.
They turned the horse into the field.
to turn the dogs loose
She turned down the blankets and climbed into bed.
He turned up the collar of his coat and hurried out into the rain.
to turn cartwheels/somersaults
He sat turning the pages idly.
Turn to p.23.
The leaves were turning brown.
The weather has turned cold.
He turned nasty when we refused to give him the money.
He decided to turn professional.
The heat turned the milk sour.
She turned a deathly shade of white when she heard the news.
He's a lawyer turned politician (= he used to be a lawyer but is now a politician).
She turns 21 in June.
It's turned midnight.
to turn a chair leg
turned boxes and bowls
How could she turn round and say that, after all I've done for her?
She turned against her old friend.
After the divorce he tried to turn the children against their mother.
Turn around and let me look at your back.
I turned my chair round to face the fire.
Hundreds of people were turned away from the stadium (= because it was full).
They had nowhere to stay so I couldn't turn them away.
The weather became so bad that they had to turn back.
(figurative) We said we would do it—there can be no turning back.
Our car was turned back at the border.
Why did she turn down your invitation?
He has been turned down for ten jobs so far.
He asked her to marry him but she turned him down.
Please turn the volume down.
He turned the lights down low.
Her feet turn in.
She threatened to turn him in to the police.
He decided to turn himself in.
You must turn in your pass when you leave the building.
They turned in a petition with 80 000 signatures.
I haven't even turned in Monday's work yet.
The champion turned in a superb performance to retain her title.
Our dream holiday turned into a nightmare.
In one year she turned from a problem child into a model student.
Ten years of prison had turned him into an old man.
The prince was turned into a frog by the witch.
Is this where we turn off?
The jet began to turn off the main runway.
I couldn't understand the lecture so I just turned off.
People had been turned off by both candidates in the election.
to turn off the light
Please turn the television off before you go to bed.
The dogs suddenly turned on each other.
Why are you all turning on me (= criticizing or blaming me)?
Much turns on the outcome of the current peace talks.
The discussion turned on the need to raise standards.
Jazz has never really turned me on.
She gets turned on by men in uniform.
He turned her on to jazz.
to turn on the heating
I'll turn the television on.
(figurative) He really knows how to turn on the charm (= suddenly become pleasant and attractive).
A vast crowd turned out to watch the procession.
Despite our worries everything turned out well.
You never know how your children will turn out.
If the day turns out wet, we may have to change our plans.
Her toes turn out.
It turned out that she was a friend of my sister.
The job turned out to be harder than we thought.
The house they had offered us turned out to be a tiny apartment.
The factory turns out 900 cars a week.
Remember to turn out the lights when you go to bed.
to turn out the attic
She turned her toes out.
If you turn over you might find it easier to get to sleep.
The car skidded and turned over.
(figurative) The smell made my stomach turn over (= made me feel sick).
The company turns over £3.5 million a year.
Brown the meat on one side, then turn it over and brown the other side.
She kept turning over the events of the day in her mind.
A supermarket will turn over its stock very rapidly.
Burglars had turned the house over.
Customs officials turned the man over to the police.
He turned the business over to his daughter.
The factory was turned over to the manufacture of aircraft parts.
She has nobody she can turn to.
Don't worry about the letter—I'm sure it'll turn up.
We arranged to meet at 7.30, but she never turned up.
He's still hoping something (= for example, a job or a piece of luck) will turn up.
Could you turn the TV up?
The music was turned up loud.
Our efforts to trace him turned up nothing.
Give the handle a few turns.
Make a left/right turn into West Street.
a lane full of twists and turns
When it's your turn, take another card.
Please wait your turn.
Whose turn is it to cook?
Steve took a turn driving while I slept.
a surprising turn of events
His health has taken a turn for the worse (= suddenly got worse).
Events took a dramatic turn in the weeks that followed.
The book is, by turns, funny and very sad.
Everyone got up on stage to do a turn.
We took a turn around the park.
a funny turn (= a feeling that you may faint)
The police turned the whole house upside down looking for clues.
His sudden death turned her world upside down.
The canoe floated upside down on the lake.
The painting looks like it's upside down to me.
We missed the turn-off for the airport.
The city's crime rate is a serious turn-off to potential investors.
I find beards a real turn-off.
He actually offered to help? That's a turn-up for the books!
a turnaround in the economy
Take the first turning on the right.
I think we must have taken a wrong turning somewhere.
The promotion marked a turning point in her career.
This year's festival attracted a record turnout.
a high/low/poor turnout
a 60% turnout of voters
an annual turnover of $75 million
a fall in turnover
a high turnover of staff
a fast turnover of stock
a turquoise brooch
a turquoise dress
He was injured during a tussle for the ball.
The children were tussling with one another for the ball.
tussocky grass
Tut-tut, I expected better of you.
tuts of disapproval
He tut-tutted under his breath.
parental tutelage
his history tutor
He was my personal tutor at university.
She's in my tutor group at school.
a part-time adult education tutor
a violin tutor
He tutors students in mathematics.
Her work was divided between tutoring and research.
An online tutorial is provided.
tutorial staff
(BrE) a tutorial college (= a private school that prepares students for exams)
What's on TV tonight?
We're buying a new TV with the money.
Almost all homes have at least one TV set.
All rooms have a bathroom and colour TV.
a TV series/show/programme
satellite/cable/digital TV
She's a highly paid TV presenter.
The bed springs twanged.
Someone was twanging a guitar in the next room.
She tweaked his ear playfully.
I think you'll have to tweak these figures a little before you show them to the boss.
She gave his ear a tweak.
The room was decorated with twee little pictures of animals.
a tweed jacket
a tweedy jacket
The film is a tweener, neither indie nor mainstream.
Good morning, tweeps! Hope everyone is enjoying the holiday.
The event was brought to my attention via Twitter by some of my fellow tweeps.
I'll give you the tweetable summary of the plan.
A couple of my colleagues are hosting a tweetup at a local restaurant after the conference.
a pair of tweezers
You need two 20ps for the machine.
He's on duty twenty-four seven.
I don't know him well; I've only met him twice.
They go there twice a week/month/year.
a twice-monthly/yearly newsletter
an area twice the size of Wales
Cats sleep twice as much as people.
At 56 he's twice her age.
There was enough of the drug in her stomach to kill her twice over.
He twiddled with the radio knob until he found the right programme.
She was twiddling the ring on her finger.
a twiddle of the knob
twiddles on the clarinet
Haven't you twigged yet?
I finally twigged what he meant.
It was hard to see him clearly in the twilight.
We went for a walk along the beach at twilight.
the twilight years (= the last years of your life)
the twilight world of the occult
They lived in the twilight zone on the fringes of society.
a cotton twill skirt
She's expecting twins.
Oxford is twinned with Bonn in Germany.
The opera twins the themes of love and death.
twin boys/girls
a twin brother/sister
a ship with twin propellers
The prison service has the twin goals of punishment and rehabilitation.
Would you prefer twin beds or a double?
sheets to fit a twin bed
a visit to Lyon, Birmingham's twin town in France
ivy twining around a tree trunk
She twined her arms around my neck.
He felt a twinge in his knee.
a twinge of disappointment
twinkling lights in the distance
twinkling blue eyes
Her eyes twinkled with merriment.
He looked at me with a twinkle in his eye.
the twinkle of stars
the twinkle of the harbour lights in the distance
She twirled around in front of the mirror.
He held her hand and twirled her around.
He twirled his hat in his hand.
She sat twirling the stem of the glass in her fingers.
He kept twirling his moustache.
Kate did a twirl in her new dress.
Twist the wire to form a circle.
He grabbed me and twisted my arm behind my back.
Her face twisted in anger.
He twisted his head around to look at her.
She twisted in her chair when I called her name.
I twisted and turned to avoid being caught.
She tried unsuccessfully to twist free.
He managed to twist himself round in the restricted space.
Twist the knob to the left to open the door.
Nervously I twisted the ring on my finger.
The road twists and turns along the coast.
narrow twisting streets
a twisting staircase
She fell and twisted her ankle.
She twisted a scarf around her head.
The telephone cable has got twisted (= wound around itself).
A snake was twisting around his arm.
You always twist everything I say.
The newspaper was accused of twisting the facts.
They had twisted the sheets into a rope and escaped by climbing down it.
I twisted off the lid and looked inside.
a twist-off top
She gave the lid another twist and it came off.
He gave a shy smile and a little twist of his head.
the twists and turns of his political career
The story has taken another twist.
The disappearance of a vital witness added a new twist to the case.
By a curious twist of fate we met again only a week or so later.
The car followed the twists and turns of the mountain road.
mineral water with a twist of lemon
She's gone completely round the twist.
After the crash the car was a mass of twisted metal.
a twisted ankle (= injured by being turned suddenly)
She gave a small twisted smile.
Her experiences had left her bitter and twisted.
Her lips twitched with amusement.
The cats watched each other, their tails twitching.
He twitched the package out of my hands.
The curtains twitched as she rang the bell.
She has a twitch in her left eye.
a nervous twitch
He greeted us with a mere twitch of his head.
At that moment she felt the first twitch of anxiety.
I gave him the two fingers.
She wanted to be more than just a two-bit secretary.
a two-dimensional drawing
(figurative) The novel was criticized for its two-dimensional characters (= that did not seem like real people).
a two-edged remark
Fame can be a two-edged sword.
a two-handed backhand (= in tennis )
a two-handed catch
a two-piece suit
a two-star hotel
Are you sure he's not two-timing you?
two-way traffic
two-way trade
a two-way switch (= that allows electric current to be turned on or off from either of two points)
Friendship is a two-way process.
The problem was twofold.
a twofold increase in demand
Her original investment has increased twofold.
a twopenny stamp
a business/property/media tycoon
different racial types
a rare blood type
There are three main types of contract(s).
Bungalows are a type of house.
She mixes with all types of people.
She mixes with people of all types.
I love this type of book.
I love these types of books.
(informal) I love these type of books.
What do you charge for this type of work?
What do you charge for work of this type?
It is the first car of its type to have this design feature.
She's the artistic type.
He's not the type to be unfaithful.
She's not my type (= not the kind of person I am usually attracted to).
a police-type badge
a continental-type cafe
The type was too small for me to read.
The important words are in bold type.
How fast can you type?
typing errors
This letter will need to be typed (out) again.
Type (in) the filename, then press 'Return'.
Has that report been typed up yet?
Blood samples were taken from patients for typing.
She didn't want to be typecast as a dumb blonde.
I'd like the heading to be in a different typeface from the text.
Pages can now be typeset on-screen.
computerized typesetting
a typhoid epidemic
The factory typically produces 500 chairs a week.
A typically priced meal will be around $10.
typically American hospitality
Mothers typically worry about their children.
Typically, she couldn't find her keys.
He was typically modest about his achievements.
clothes that typify the 1960s
the new style of politician, typified by the Prime Minister
the haunting guitar melodies that typify the band's music
to do the typing
a typing pool (= a group of people who share a company's typing work)
I'm quite a fast typist.
a typographical error
typographic design
a victim of oppression and tyranny
The children had no protection against the tyranny of their father.
the tyrannies of Nazi rule
(figurative) These days it seems we must all submit to the tyranny of the motor car.
Any political system refusing to allow dissent becomes a tyranny.
a father tyrannizing his children
a political leader who tyrannizes over his people
The country was ruled by a succession of tyrants.
(figurative) His boss is a complete tyrant.
a front tyre
a back/rear tyre
to pump up a tyre
a flat/burst/punctured tyre
bald/worn tyres
'Under' begins with (a) U/'U'.
Aladdin, certificate U
to do/make a U-turn
His girlfriend was a real uber-babe, with long blonde hair and a big smile.
This stylish new restaurant is futuristic and uber-cool.
the ubiquitous bicycles of university towns
the ubiquitous movie star, Tom Hanks
the ubiquity of the mass media
The concept of ubuntu involves deep concern for others and having sound morals.
The rekindling of the spirit of Ubuntu will restore tolerance and dialogue.
Consumers between 25 and 54 years old were the biggest content drivers, contributing 70% of all UGC.
Ugh! How can you eat that stuff?
an ugly face
an ugly building
an ugly incident
There were ugly scenes in the streets last night as rioting continued.
Uh, yeah, I guess so.
'Are you ready yet?' 'Uh? Oh. Yes.'
We can discuss this another time, uh?
'Did you read my note?' 'Uh-huh.'
Uh-oh. I forgot to write that letter.
Uh-oh! Turn the TV off. Here comes Dad!
With this update, they have redesigned the UI, making it easier to navigate and customize.
a stomach ulcer
our ultimate goal/aim/objective/target
We will accept ultimate responsibility for whatever happens.
The ultimate decision lies with the parents.
This race will be the ultimate test of your skill.
Silk sheets are the ultimate luxury.
the ultimate truths of philosophy and science
the ultimate in modern design
She must have some ulterior motive for being nice to me—what does she really want?
to issue an ultimatum
Ultimately, you'll have to make the decision yourself.
A poor diet will ultimately lead to illness.
All life depends ultimately on oxygen.
ultra-modern
ultraviolet
ultrasonic waves
Ultrasound showed she was expecting twins.
ultraviolet rays (= that cause the skin to go darker)
an ultraviolet lamp
Um, I'm not sure how to ask you this…
Tomatoes have lots of umami.
I put up my umbrella.
colourful beach umbrellas
Many previously separate groups are now operating under the umbrella of a single authority.
an umbrella organization/group/fund
'Contact sports' is an umbrella term for a variety of different sports.
We need someone to umpire.
to umpire a game of baseball
I've told this story umpteen times.
Umpteen of them all arrived at once.
'This is crazy,' she told herself for the umpteenth time (= she had done it many times before).
the UN Security Council
a UN peacekeeping plan
unable
unconsciously
untruth
unlock
undo
The rain continued unabated.
He lay there, unable to move.
I tried to contact him but was unable to.
Such behaviour is totally unacceptable in a civilized society.
Noise from the factory has reached an unacceptable level.
unacceptably high levels of unemployment
No unaccompanied children allowed.
unaccompanied luggage/baggage (= travelling separately from its owner)
a sonata for unaccompanied violin
Mere words, unaccompanied by any violence, cannot amount to an assault.
For some unaccountable reason, the letter never arrived.
Too many government departments are unaccountable to the general public.
He has been unaccountably delayed.
At least 300 civilians are unaccounted for after the bombing raids.
In the story he gave the police, half an hour was left unaccounted for.
He was unaccustomed to hard work.
I am unaccustomed to being told what to do.
The unaccustomed heat made him weary.
unachievable goals
Her contribution to the research went largely unacknowledged.
unacknowledged feelings
the unacknowledged leader of the group
visitors unacquainted with local customs
Unadjusted figures which do not take tourism into account showed that unemployment fell in July.
The walls were plain and unadorned.
For me, the holiday was sheer unadulterated pleasure.
unadulterated foods
People's rights are unaffected by the new law.
Some members of the family may remain unaffected by the disease.
Health insurance is now unaffordable for many people.
She was unafraid of conflict.
He's unafraid to speak his mind.
He can now walk unaided.
unalloyed joy
the unalterable laws of the universe
This practice has remained unaltered for centuries.
an unambiguous statement
The message was clear and unambiguous—'Get out!'
an unambitious plan
a unanimous vote
unanimous support
The decision was not unanimous.
Local people are unanimous in their opposition to the proposed new road.
The motion was passed unanimously.
She just turned up unannounced on my doorstep.
an unannounced increase in bus fares
They presented an unanswerable case for more investment.
Many questions about the crime remain unanswered.
unanswered letters
unanticipated costs
The room was painted in an unappealing shade of brown.
The prospect of studying for another five years was distinctly unappealing.
He was in a job where he felt unappreciated and undervalued.
unarguable proof
She is unarguably one of the country's finest athletes.
unarmed civilians
The soldiers were trained in unarmed combat.
She wept unashamedly.
an unashamedly sentimental song
He came to the party unasked.
She brought him, unasked, the relevant file.
unasked-for advice
The party now has an unassailable lead.
Their ten-point lead puts the team in an almost unassailable position.
She could not move unassisted.
He was still unattached at the age of 34.
an unattainable goal
unattended vehicles
Never leave young children unattended.
an unattractive brown colour
one of the unattractive aspects of the free market economy
No access for unauthorized personnel.
Such luxuries are unavailable to ordinary people.
The minister was unavailable for comment.
Their efforts were unavailing.
unavoidable delays
I was unavoidably delayed.
He was completely unaware of the whole affair.
She was unaware that I could see her.
The camera had caught her unawares.
The announcement took me unawares.
She came upon him unawares when he was searching her room.
He slipped unawares into sleep.
an unbalanced article
an unbalanced diet
The heat was becoming unbearable.
unbearable pain
He's been unbearable since he won that prize.
unbearably hot
unbeatable offers
The team are unbeaten in their last four games.
They will be putting their unbeaten record to the test next Saturday.
She was wearing an unbecoming shade of purple.
He was accused of conduct unbecoming to an officer.
His behaviour is unbefitting of a university professor.
The amount of litter in the streets is unbefitting for a historic city.
Unbeknown to her they had organized a surprise party.
We had an unbelievable (= very good) time in Paris.
Conditions in the prison camp were unbelievable (= very bad).
The cold was unbelievable (= it was extremely cold).
It's unbelievable that (= very shocking) they have permitted this trial to go ahead.
I found the whole story bizarre, not to say unbelievable.
unbelievably bad/good
Unbelievably it actually works.
She stared at us with unbelieving eyes.
He gazed at the letter, unbelieving.
unbiased advice
an unbiased judge
He walked into the room unbidden.
unbleached flour
He had an unblemished reputation.
her pale unblemished skin
her unborn baby
her unbounded energy
The losing team left the field bloody but unbowed.
This new material is virtually unbreakable.
unbridled passion
a single unbroken line
30 years of virtually unbroken peace
my first night of unbroken sleep since the baby was born
She needed to unburden herself to somebody.
He unbuttoned his shirt.
Staff respond well to her unbuttoned style of management.
His comments were uncalled for.
uncalled-for comments
I had an uncanny feeling I was being watched.
It was uncanny really, almost as if she knew what I was thinking.
He looked uncannily like someone I knew.
The garden looked uncared for.
an uncared-for garden
unceasing efforts
Planes passed overhead with unceasing regularity.
Snow fell unceasingly.
an uncensored newspaper article
He was bundled out of the room with unceremonious haste.
They dumped his belongings unceremoniously on the floor.
They're both uncertain about what to do.
I'm still uncertain of my feelings for him.
Our future looks uncertain.
a man of uncertain temper
It is uncertain what his role in the company will be.
The baby took its first uncertain steps.
There is considerable uncertainty about the company's future.
He had an air of uncertainty about him.
life's uncertainties
the uncertainties of war
They smiled uncertainly at one another.
unchallengeable evidence
She could not allow such a claim to go unchallenged.
He is in a position of unchallenged authority.
I walked into the building unchallenged.
unchangeable laws
My opinion remains unchanged.
unchanging truths
The remark was quite uncharacteristic of her.
The children had been uncharacteristically quiet.
uncharitable thoughts
They set off into the country's uncharted interior.
(figurative) The party is sailing in uncharted waters (= a situation it has not been in before).
(figurative) I was moving into uncharted territory (= a completely new experience) with this relationship.
The ship hit an uncharted rock.
The fire was allowed to burn unchecked.
The rise in violent crime must not go unchecked.
The plant will soon choke ponds and waterways if left unchecked.
I have worked in the wildest and most uncivilized parts of the world.
(BrE) A high proportion of candidates get low or unclassified grades (= their work is not good enough to receive a grade).
Uncle Ian
I'm going to visit my uncle.
I've just become an uncle (= because your brother/sister has had a baby).
He owed $20 000 in tax to Uncle Sam.
unclean water
unclean thoughts
unclean food
His motives are unclear.
It is unclear whether there is any damage.
Your diagrams are unclear.
I'm unclear about what you want me to do.
The snake slowly uncoiled.
to uncoil a rope
uncomfortable shoes
I couldn't sleep because the bed was so uncomfortable.
I was sitting in an extremely uncomfortable position.
She still finds it uncomfortable to stand without support.
He looked distinctly uncomfortable when the subject was mentioned.
There was an uncomfortable silence.
an uncomfortable fact
I had the uncomfortable feeling that it was my fault.
I became uncomfortably aware that no one else was laughing.
Her comment was uncomfortably close to the truth.
He shifted uncomfortably in his seat when I mentioned money.
I was feeling uncomfortably hot.
She perched uncomfortably on the edge of the table.
The party needs to canvass the uncommitted voters.
an uncommon occurrence
Side effects from the drug are uncommon.
It is not uncommon for college students to live at home.
Red squirrels are uncommon in England.
She showed uncommon pleasure at his arrival.
an uncommonly gifted child
Not uncommonly, there is a great deal of rain in August.
an uncompetitive industry
uncompetitive prices
an uncompleted project
an easygoing, uncomplicated young man
Why can't I have an uncomplicated life?
uncomplimentary remarks
She looked at him uncomprehendingly.
an uncompromising attitude
He has a reputation for being tough and uncompromising.
unconcealed curiosity
She received the news with apparent unconcern.
He drove on, apparently unconcerned about the noise the engine was making.
Young people are often unconcerned with political issues.
She was knocked unconscious.
They found him lying unconscious on the floor.
unconscious desires
The brochure is full of unconscious humour.
She is unconscious of the effect she has on people.
He was quite unconscious of the danger.
He had lapsed into unconsciousness.
the unconditional surrender of military forces
She gave her children unconditional love.
an unconditioned response
The animals have unconfined access to pasture.
When the news came through joy was unconfined.
unconfirmed rumours
Unconfirmed reports said that at least six people had been killed.
uncongenial company
an uncongenial atmosphere
The religious climate at the time was uncongenial to new ideas.
The two crimes are apparently unconnected.
My resignation was totally unconnected with recent events.
Perhaps, unconsciously, I've done something to offend her.
I came to regret my unconsidered remarks.
unconstrained growth
uncontaminated water
The proposal is relatively uncontentious.
an uncontested election/divorce
These claims have not gone uncontested.
an uncontrollable temper
uncontrollable bleeding
I had an uncontrollable urge to laugh.
The ball was uncontrollable.
He's an uncontrollable child (= he behaves very badly and cannot be controlled).
She began shaking uncontrollably.
uncontrolled anger
The thoughts rushed into my mind uncontrolled.
the uncontrolled growth of cities
uncontrolled dumping of toxic wastes
an uncontroversial opinion
He chose an uncontroversial topic for his speech.
an unconventional approach to the problem
unconventional views
I remain unconvinced of the need for change.
She seemed unconvinced by their promises.
The jury were unconvinced that he was innocent.
I find the characters in the book very unconvincing.
She managed a weak, unconvincing smile.
Eat plenty of uncooked fruit and vegetables.
uncouth laughter
an uncouth young man
Uncover the pan and let the soup simmer.
Police have uncovered a plot to kidnap the President's son.
His head was uncovered.
Her uncritical acceptance of everything I said began to irritate me.
The beach was pleasantly uncrowded.
The snake slowly uncurled.
The cat uncurled itself and jumped off the wall.
The uncut grass came up to her waist.
the original uncut version
uncut diamonds
There was a slight collision but my car was undamaged.
He emerged from the court case with his reputation undamaged.
an undated letter
undated archaeological remains
He seemed undaunted by all the opposition to his idea.
I'm still undecided (about) who to vote for.
He was undecided as to what to do next.
The venue for the World Cup remains undecided.
No income should remain undeclared.
Undeclared goods (= that the customs are not told about) may be confiscated.
They are undefeated in 13 games.
the undefeated world champion
undefended borders
The money was lent for an undefined period of time.
an undemanding job
undemocratic decisions
an undemocratic regime
an undemocratically elected government
He was accused of acting undemocratically.
He had undeniable charm.
It is an undeniable fact that crime is increasing.
undeniably impressive
Have you looked under the bed?
She placed the ladder under (= just lower than) the window.
The dog squeezed under the gate and ran into the road.
The boat lay under several feet of water.
an annual income of under £10 000
It took us under an hour.
Nobody under 18 is allowed to buy alcohol.
The country is now under martial law.
The coinage was reformed under Elizabeth I (= when she was queen).
She has a staff of 19 working under her.
Under its new conductor, the orchestra has established an international reputation.
A man was detained under the Mental Health Act.
Under the terms of the lease you had no right to sublet the property.
Is the television still under guarantee?
The hotel is still under construction.
The matter is under investigation.
The wall collapsed under the strain.
I've been feeling under stress lately.
I'm under no illusions about what hard work this will be.
You'll be under anaesthetic, so you won't feel a thing.
She also writes under the pseudonym of Barbara Vine.
If it's not under 'sports', try looking under 'games'.
He pulled up the covers and crawled under.
She took a deep breath and stayed under for more than a minute.
The boat was going under fast.
prices of ten dollars and under
children aged 12 and under
He felt himself going under.
the under layer
the under surface of a leaf
Next year's collection is still being kept under wraps.
undergrowth
undercover
the under-fives
an undergraduate
underripe
undercooked
Women are under-represented at senior levels in business.
Nurses are overstretched and the hospital is seriously under-resourced.
underage drinking
underarm hair/deodorant/sweating
He's seriously underrated as a writer.
an underrated movie
The trade deficit remains the soft underbelly of the US economy.
(figurative) He became familiar with the dark underbelly of life in the city (= the parts that are usually hidden).
The long-term unemployed are becoming a new underclass.
an undercover agent
an undercover operation/investigation
The illegal payments were discovered by a journalist working undercover.
I detect an undercurrent of resentment towards the new proposals.
to undercut sb's prices
We were able to undercut our European rivals by 5%.
Some members of the board were trying to undercut the chairman's authority.
Before the game we were definitely the underdogs.
In politics, he was a champion of the underdog (= always fought for the rights of weaker people).
to underestimate the cost of the project
We underestimated the time it would take to get there.
Never underestimate your opponent.
My guess of 400 proved to be a serious underestimate.
underfloor heating
The ground was dry and firm underfoot.
I was nearly trampled underfoot by the crowd of people rushing for the door.
seriously/chronically underfunded
to undergo tests/trials/repairs
My mother underwent major surgery last year.
Some children undergo a complete transformation when they become teenagers.
a first-year undergraduate
an undergraduate course/student/degree
underground passages/caves/streams
underground cables
an underground resistance movement
Rescuers found victims trapped several feet underground.
toxic waste buried deep underground
He went underground to avoid arrest.
underground stations
the London Underground
I always travel by underground.
They used their knives to clear a path through the dense undergrowth.
The murder weapon was found concealed in undergrowth.
I would never have expected her to behave in such an underhand way.
These ideas underlie much of his work.
It is a principle that underlies all the party's policies.
The underlying assumption is that the amount of money available is limited.
Unemployment may be an underlying cause of the rising crime rate.
the underlying rock formation
The report underlines the importance of pre-school education.
Her question underlined how little she understood him.
The report underlined that the project enjoyed considerable support in both countries.
It should be underlined that these are only preliminary findings.
Our confidence in the team has been seriously undermined by their recent defeats.
This crisis has undermined his position.
The coin rolled underneath the piano.
This jacket's too big, even with a sweater underneath.
Underneath her cool exterior she was really very frightened.
He seems bad-tempered, but he's very soft-hearted underneath.
She pulled the drawer out and examined the underneath carefully.
severely undernourished children
Nurses complain of being overworked and underpaid.
The report is underpinned by extensive research.
underprivileged sections of the community
educationally/socially underprivileged groups
undersea cables/earthquakes
Don't undersell yourself at the interview.
We, the undersigned, agree to…
The inquiry found that the company had seriously underspent on safety equipment.
We've underspent our budget this year.
a £1 million underspend
Can you understand French?
Do you understand the instructions?
She didn't understand the form she was signing.
I'm not sure that I understand. Go over it again.
I don't want you doing that again. Do you understand?
I don't understand what he's saying.
Doctors still don't understand much about the disease.
No one is answering the phone—I can't understand it.
I could never understand why she was fired.
I just can't understand him taking the money.
(formal) I just can't understand his taking the money.
He was the first to understand that we live in a knowledge economy.
Nobody understands me.
He doesn't understand women at all.
They understand what I have been through.
I quite understand that you need some time alone.
If you want to leave early, I'm sure he'll understand.
I quite understand you needing some time alone.
I understand (that) you wish to see the manager.
Am I to understand that you refuse?
The Prime Minister is understood to have been extremely angry about the report.
It is understood that the band are working on their next album.
I thought it was understood that my expenses would be paid.
In the sentence 'I can't drive', the object 'a car' is understood.
Their attitude is perfectly understandable.
It was an understandable mistake to make.
Warning notices must be readily understandable.
They were understandably disappointed with the result.
The committee has little or no understanding of the problem.
The existence of God is beyond human understanding (= humans cannot know whether God exists or not).
We finally came to an understanding about what hours we would work.
We have this understanding that nobody talks about work over lunch.
We must tackle the problem with sympathy and understanding.
We are looking for a better understanding between the two nations.
My understanding of the situation is…
The statement is open to various understandings.
She has very understanding parents.
It would be a mistake to understate the seriousness of the problem.
To say we were pleased is an understatement (= we were extremely pleased).
'These figures are a bit disappointing.' 'That's got to be the understatement of the year.'
typical English understatement
He always goes for subtlety and understatement in his movies.
to undertake a task/project
University professors both teach and undertake research.
The company has announced that it will undertake a full investigation into the accident.
He undertook to finish the job by Friday.
He is interested in buying the club as a commercial undertaking.
In those days, the trip across country was a dangerous undertaking.
a government undertaking to spend more on education
The landlord gave a written undertaking that the repairs would be carried out.
His soft words contained an undertone of warning.
The play does not have the political undertones of the novel.
The children were carried out to sea by the strong undertow.
The undertrials will appear in court next week.
Education is currently undervalued in this country.
He believes his house has been undervalued.
She packed one change of underwear.
underwater creatures
an underwater camera
Take a deep breath and see how long you can stay underwater.
She is a few pounds underweight for (= in relation to) her height.
We were distinctly underwhelmed by the director's speech.
the contrast between his overwhelming guitar-playing and his underwhelming singing
the criminal underworld
the Glasgow underworld
The criticism was totally undeserved.
an undeserved victory
He was undeserving of her affections.
undesirable consequences/effects
It would be highly undesirable to increase class sizes further.
prostitution and other undesirable practices
He's been mixing with drug addicts and other undesirables.
The sound is virtually undetectable to the human ear.
How could anyone break into the palace undetected?
The disease often goes/remains undetected for many years.
undeveloped limbs
a view of society as an undifferentiated whole
an undifferentiated target audience
There was an undignified scramble for the best seats.
They continued with undiminished enthusiasm.
He was paid an undisclosed sum.
a previously undiscovered talent
a look of undisguised admiration
undisputed facts
the undisputed champion of the world
an undistinguished career
The treasure had lain undisturbed for centuries.
She succeeded in working undisturbed for a few hours.
He seemed undisturbed by the news of her death.
an undivided Church
undivided loyalty
You must be prepared to give the job your undivided attention.
to undo a button/knot/zip, etc.
to undo a jacket/shirt, etc.
I undid the package and took out the books.
He undid most of the good work of the previous manager.
It's not too late to try and undo some of the damage.
UNDO (= a command on a computer that cancels the previous action)
The team was undone by the speed and strength of their opponents.
undocumented accusations
undocumented immigrants
That one mistake was his undoing.
Her blouse had come undone.
Most of the work had been left undone.
She has an undoubted talent as an organizer.
There is undoubtedly a great deal of truth in what he says.
undreamed-of success
She undressed and got into bed.
to undress a child
He got undressed in a small cubicle next to the pool.
He appeared at the window in a state of undress.
She began to get undressed (= remove her clothes).
They are taking undue advantage of the situation.
The work should be carried out without undue delay.
We did not want to put any undue pressure on them.
The countryside undulates pleasantly.
undulating countryside/fields/terrain/ground
undulating flight/movement/motion
He did not sound unduly worried at the prospect.
The levels of pollution in this area are unduly high.
The thought did not disturb her unduly.
undying love
Declare all unearned income.
to unearth buried treasures
I unearthed my old diaries when we moved house.
The newspaper has unearthed some disturbing facts.
an unearthly cry
an unearthly light
a deep feeling/sense of unease
There was a growing unease about their involvement in the war.
He was unable to hide his unease at the way the situation was developing.
an uneasy laugh
He was beginning to feel distinctly uneasy about their visit.
She felt uneasy about leaving the children with them.
an uneasy peace
The two sides eventually reached an uneasy compromise.
She woke from an uneasy sleep to find the house empty.
an uneasy mix of humour and violence
Old farmhouses and new villas stood together in uneasy proximity.
I wondered uneasily what he was thinking.
She shifted uneasily in her chair.
His socialist views sit uneasily with his huge fortune.
Bill put the uneaten food away.
unnecessary expense
They were found guilty of causing unnecessary suffering to animals.
All this fuss is totally unnecessary.
That last comment was a little unnecessary, wasn't it?
There's no point worrying him unnecessarily.
unnecessarily complicated instructions
uneconomic industries
It soon proved uneconomical to stay open 24 hours a day.
the unedifying sight of the two party leaders screeching at each other
an uneducated workforce
an uneducated point of view
unelected bureaucrats
an unemotional speech
She seemed very cool and unemotional.
How long have you been unemployed?
an unemployed builder
a programme to get the long-term unemployed back to work
I've joined the ranks of the unemployed (= I've lost my job).
an area of high/low unemployment
rising/falling unemployment
It was a time of mass unemployment.
measures to help reduce/tackle unemployment
the level/rate of unemployment
unemployment benefit/statistics
Thousands of young people are facing long-term unemployment.
Since losing his job, Mike has been collecting unemployment.
people on (= receiving) unemployment benefit
Applications for unemployment benefits dropped last month.
a seemingly unending supply of money
unendurable pain
She was given the unenviable task of informing the losers.
an unequal distribution of wealth
an unequal contest
The sleeves are unequal in length.
The rooms upstairs are of unequal size.
She felt unequal to the task she had set herself.
an unequalled record of success
an unequivocal rejection
The answer was an unequivocal 'no'.
She had an unerring instinct for a good business deal.
unethical behaviour
The floor felt uneven under his feet.
Her breathing was quick and uneven.
uneven teeth
an uneven performance (= with some good parts and some bad parts)
an uneven distribution of resources
an uneventful life
The day passed uneventfully.
a man of unexceptionable character
an unexpected result
an unexpected visitor
The announcement was not entirely unexpected.
Police officers must be prepared for the unexpected.
They had arrived unexpectedly.
an unexpectedly large bill
The plane was unexpectedly delayed.
Not unexpectedly, most local business depends on tourism.
an unexplained mystery
He died in unexplained circumstances.
This is the full unexpurgated version of the diaries.
unfailing support
She fought the disease with unfailing good humour.
unfailingly loyal/polite
unfair criticism
It seems unfair on him to make him pay for everything.
It would be unfair not to let you have a choice.
They had been given an unfair advantage.
unfair dismissal (= a situation in which sb is illegally dismissed from their job)
measures to prevent unfair competition between member countries
Life seems so unfair sometimes.
It's so unfair!
She claims to have been unfairly dismissed.
The tests discriminate unfairly against older people.
Have you ever been unfaithful to him?
She felt uneasy in the unfamiliar surroundings.
Please highlight any terms that are unfamiliar to you.
an introductory course for students who are unfamiliar with computers
an unfashionable part of London
unfashionable ideas
a man with unfashionably long hair
to unfasten a belt/button, etc.
an unfathomable mystery
The conditions were unfavourable for agriculture.
an unfavourable exchange rate
an unfavourable comment
The documentary presents him in a very unfavourable light.
an unfavourable comparison (= one that makes one thing seem much worse than another)
In this respect, Britain compares unfavourably with other European countries.
unfeigned admiration
an unfettered free market
We have some unfinished business to settle.
The housing was unfit for human habitation.
The food on offer was unfit for human consumption.
This water is unfit to drink.
Most of the buildings are unfit to live in.
They described him as unfit to govern.
(specialist) Many of the houses were condemned as unfit.
(specialist) The court claims she is an unfit mother.
He's still unfit for work.
The company's doctor found that she was unfit to carry out her normal work.
The captain is still unfit and will miss tonight's game.
She felt herself unfitted for marriage.
unflagging energy
an unflattering dress
unflattering comments
unflinching loyalty
an unflinching stare
an unfocused look
The research is too unfocused to have any significant impact.
unfocused questions
to unfold a map
She unfolded her arms.
The audience watched as the story unfolded before their eyes.
She unfolded her tale to us.
unforced humour
Building a dam here could have unforeseeable consequences for the environment.
unforeseen delays/problems
The project was running late owing to unforeseen circumstances.
Unfortunately, I won't be able to attend the meeting.
I can't make it, unfortunately.
Unfortunately for him, the police had been informed and were waiting outside.
It won't be finished for a few weeks. Unfortunately!
unformed ideas
He was very unforthcoming about what had happened.
He was unfortunate to lose in the final round.
It was an unfortunate accident.
She described the decision as 'unfortunate'.
It was unfortunate that he couldn't speak English.
You're putting me in a most unfortunate position.
It was an unfortunate choice of words.
one of life's unfortunates
unfounded allegations/rumours, etc.
Speculation about a divorce proved totally unfounded.
The party plans to unfreeze some of the cash held by local government.
If a Facebook friend suddenly becomes your boss, do you unfriend them?
Young adults are more likely to unfriend.
an unfriendly atmosphere
There's no need to be so unfriendly towards them.
the use of environmentally unfriendly products (= that harm the environment)
unfulfilled ambitions/hopes/promises, etc.
an unfulfilling job
The show was deeply unfunny.
The leaves slowly unfurled.
to unfurl a flag
We rented an unfurnished apartment.
He was a tall, ungainly boy of 18.
an unglamorous job
ungovernable rage
The museum was unguarded at night.
an unguarded fire (= that has nothing to stop people from burning themselves on it)
an unguarded remark
It was something I'd let out in an unguarded moment.
to be/look/seem/sound unhappy
an unhappy childhood
I didn't realize but he was deeply unhappy at that time.
They were unhappy with their accommodation.
He was unhappy at being left out of the team.
an unhappy coincidence
It was an unhappy choice of words.
He sighed unhappily.
Unhappily, such good luck is rare.
His wife, unhappily, died five years ago.
They looked poor and unhealthy.
unhealthy skin
His eyeballs were an unhealthy yellow.
unhealthy living conditions
an unhealthy diet/lifestyle
He had an unhealthy interest in disease and death.
the unhealthiness of suppressing emotions
These people have problems with stress and general unhealthiness.
Their protests went unheard.
a previously unheard tape of their conversations
He'd dyed his hair, which was almost unheard-of in the 1960s.
It is almost unheard-of for a new band to be offered such a deal.
an unheated bathroom
Her warning went unheeded.
an unhelpful response
The taxi driver was being very unhelpful.
He gave an unhesitating 'yes' when asked if he would go through the experience again.
She had unhindered access to the files.
He was able to pass unhindered through several military checkpoints.
to unhitch a trailer
an unholy alliance between the medical profession and the pharmaceutical industry
She wondered how she had got into this unholy mess.
He unhooked his coat from the door.
She unhooked her bra.
Lynn walked unhurriedly into the kitchen.
He escaped from the crash unhurt.
friends from uni
Where were you at uni?
uniform
unilaterally
unicellular organisms
He had an unidentifiable accent.
Many of the bodies were unidentifiable except by dental records.
an unidentified virus
The painting was sold to an unidentified American dealer (= his or her name was not given).
The new leader hopes to unify the country.
the task of unifying Europe
a unified transport system
the unification of Germany
a military/police/nurse's uniform
soldiers in uniform
The hat is part of the school uniform.
Do you have to wear uniform?
a striped baseball uniform
the team's away uniform (= that they use when playing games away from home)
my standard teenage uniform of sweatshirt and jeans
uniform rates of pay
The walls were a uniform grey.
Growth has not been uniform across the country.
uniform lines of terraced houses (= they all looked the same)
They tried to ensure uniformity across the different departments.
the drab uniformity of the houses
The principles were applied uniformly across all the departments.
The quality is uniformly high.
Pressure must be uniformly distributed over the whole surface.
a uniformed chauffeur
a unilateral decision
a unilateral declaration of independence
They were forced to take unilateral action.
They had campaigned vigorously for unilateral nuclear disarmament (= when one country gets rid of its nuclear weapons without waiting for other countries to do the same).
the defeat of the unilateralists on nuclear disarmament
unilateralist defence policy
unimaginable wealth
This level of success would have been unimaginable just last year.
an unimaginative solution to a problem
a boring unimaginative man
Although he's ninety, his mental faculties remain unimpaired.
evidence from an unimpeachable source
an unimpeded view of the bay
free and unimpeded trade
unimportant details
relatively/comparatively unimportant
They dismissed the problem as unimportant.
This consideration was not unimportant.
I was just a young girl from a small town and I felt very unimportant.
His academic record was unimpressive.
The reports of the explosion were brief and uninformative.
an uninformed comment/criticism
The public is generally uninformed about these diseases.
The building was totally uninhabitable.
an uninhabited island
uninhibited dancing
To the uninitiated the system seems too complicated.
They escaped from the crash uninjured.
The view from the window was uninspiring.
Uninstall any programs that you no longer need.
an uninsured driver
an uninsured claim
He was not unintelligent, but he was lazy.
She turned away and muttered something unintelligible.
A lot of the jargon they use is unintelligible to outsiders.
Perhaps I misled you, but it was quite unintentional (= I did not mean to).
They had unintentionally provided wrong information.
He was totally uninterested in sport.
She seemed cold and uninterested.
We had an uninterrupted view of the stage.
eight hours of uninterrupted sleep
We managed to eat our meal uninterrupted by phone calls.
uninvited guests at a party
He turned up uninvited.
The water looked cold and uninviting.
My mum was distant and cold and very uninvolved in my life.
I've joined the union.
a union member
the Scottish Rugby Union
the former Soviet Union
the European Union
the Union and the Confederacy
the State of the Union address by the President
a summit to discuss economic and monetary union
Northern Ireland's union with Britain
sexual union
Their union was blessed with six children.
a unionized workforce
They were forbidden to unionize.
Everyone's fingerprints are unique.
a unique talent
The preview offers a unique opportunity to see the show without the crowds.
The deal will put the company in a unique position to export goods to Eastern Europe.
an atmosphere that is unique to New York
The koala is unique to Australia.
Her past experience made her uniquely suited to lead the campaign.
The UK, uniquely, has not had to face the problem of mass unemployment.
He was a uniquely gifted teacher.
The author stresses the uniqueness of the individual.
a unisex hair salon
unisex jeans
The cell is the unit of which all living organisms are composed.
The basic unit of society is the family.
The game's selling price was $15 per unit.
What's the unit cost?
army/military/police units
Medical units were operating in the disaster area.
the intensive care unit
a maternity unit
a fitted kitchen with white units
floor/wall units
bedroom/kitchen/storage units
a unit of time/length/weight
a unit of currency, such as the euro or the dollar
Women are advised not to drink more than fourteen units of alcohol per week.
a waste disposal unit
the central processing unit of a computer
The present perfect is covered in Unit 8.
a column for the tens and a column for the units
a single unitary state
(BrE) a unitary authority (= a type of local council, introduced in some areas from 1995 to replace existing local governments which consisted of county and district councils)
Local resident groups have united in opposition to the plan.
We will unite in fighting crime.
Will they unite behind the new leader?
Nationalist parties united to oppose the government's plans.
A special bond unites our two countries.
His aim was to unite Italy.
The two countries united in 1887.
She unites keen business skills with a charming personality.
the United States of America
efforts to build a united Europe
We need to become a more united team.
They are united in their opposition to the plan.
We should present a united front (= an appearance of being in agreement with each other).
Manchester United
United Biscuits
European unity
a plea for unity within the party
unity of purpose
The design lacks unity.
the unities of action, time and place
If society is to exist as a unity, its members must have shared values.
Is there a university in this town?
Ohio State University
the University of York
York University
(BrE) Both their children are at university.
(BrE) He's hoping to go to university next year.
a university course/degree/lecturer
Such problems are a universal feature of old age.
Agreement on this issue is almost universal.
universal suffrage (= the right of all the people in a country to vote)
universal facts about human nature
the universality of religious experience
to be universally accepted
This treatment is not universally available.
The theory does not apply universally.
theories of how the universe began
The idea of a parallel universe is hard to grasp.
(figurative) He lives in a little universe of his own.
the moral universe
an unjust law
She felt that she had been unjustly treated.
an unjustifiable delay
The criticism was wholly unjustified.
greasy, unkempt hair
an unkind remark
He was never actually unkind to them.
It would be unkind to go without him.
'That's your problem,' she remarked unkindly.
a species of insect previously unknown to science
He was trying, for some unknown reason, to count the stars.
The man's identity remains unknown.
an unknown actor
The author is virtually unknown outside Poland.
The disease is as yet unknown in Europe (= there have been no cases there).
It was not unknown for people to have to wait several hours (= it happened sometimes).
Unknown to me, he had already signed the agreement.
a journey into the unknown
a fear of the unknown
A young unknown played the leading role.
There are so many unknowns in the proposal.
X and Y in the equation are both unknowns.
a distant, unknowable divine power
He was the unknowing cause of all the misunderstanding.
She had unknowingly broken the rules.
the tomb of the Unknown Soldier
a vehicle with an unladen weight of 3 000 kg
The two police officers were accused of unlawful killing.
Unleaded is cheaper than diesel.
You'll have to unlearn all the bad habits you learned with your last piano teacher.
The government's proposals unleashed a storm of protest in the press.
You won't get paid for time off unless you have a doctor's note.
I won't tell them—not unless you say I can.
Unless I'm mistaken, she was back at work yesterday.
He hasn't got any hobbies—unless you call watching TV a hobby.
I sleep with the window open unless it's really cold.
Unless something unexpected happens, I'll see you tomorrow.
Have a cup of tea—unless you'd prefer a cold drink?
If you weren't always in such a hurry (= but you are), your work would be much better.
an unlicensed vehicle
Music is quite unlike any other art form.
The sound was not unlike that of birds singing.
Unlike most systems, this one is very easy to install.
It's very unlike him to be so late.
They are both teachers. Otherwise they are quite unlike.
The project seemed unlikely to succeed.
It's most (= very) unlikely that she'll arrive before seven.
In the unlikely event of a problem arising, please contact the hotel manager.
He seems a most unlikely candidate for the job.
They have built hotels in the most unlikely places.
She gave me an unlikely explanation for her behaviour.
The ticket gives you unlimited travel for seven days.
The court has the power to impose an unlimited fine for this offence.
You will be allowed unlimited access to the files.
unlined paper/skin
an unlisted company
an unlit passage
an unlit cigarette
Everyone helped to unload the luggage from the car.
This isn't a suitable place to unload the van.
The truck driver was waiting to unload.
It's his problem, not something he should unload onto you.
They want to unload their shares at the right price.
to unlock the door
The divers hoped to unlock some of the secrets of the seabed.
Have an old phone lying around? Unlock it and keep it as a spare.
Don't leave your desk unlocked.
unlooked-for developments
He unloosed his tie.
unloved children
an unlovely building
He was very unlucky not to win.
By some unlucky chance, her name was left off the list.
Some people think it's unlucky to walk under a ladder.
Thirteen is often considered an unlucky number.
He was injured in the first game and unluckily missed the final.
an unmanned spacecraft
an unmanned Mars mission
an unmarked police car
He was buried in an unmarked grave.
He headed the ball to the unmarked Gray.
an unmarried mother
to unmask a spy
He had a talent unmatched by any other politician of this century.
an unmentionable disease
a report on the unmet needs of elderly people
an unmissable opportunity
Her accent was unmistakable.
the unmistakable sound of gunfire
His accent was unmistakably British.
The evening was an unmitigated disaster.
unmotivated students
an unmotivated attack
Alice seemed totally unmoved by the whole experience.
She pleaded with him but he remained unmoved.
He stood, unmoving, in the shadows.
His voice was harsh and unmusical.
information from an unnamed source
Two casualties, as yet unnamed, are still in the local hospital.
It seems unnatural for a child to spend so much time alone.
There was an unnatural silence and then a scream.
unnatural sexual practices
He gave an unnatural smile (= that did not seem genuine).
Her leg was bent at an unnatural angle.
an unnatural death (= one not from natural causes)
She was, not unnaturally, very surprised at the news.
His eyes were unnaturally bright.
His silence unnerved us.
She appeared strained and a little unnerved.
His kindness did not go unnoticed by his staff.
unnumbered seats
It's not easy for somebody to get into the building unobserved.
The service at the hotel is efficient and unobtrusive.
Dora slipped unobtrusively in through the back door.
an unoccupied house
I sat down at the nearest unoccupied table.
unoccupied territory
an unofficial agreement/strike
Unofficial estimates put the figure at over two million.
The former president paid an unofficial visit to China.
The letter was returned unopened.
The party leader was re-elected unopposed.
unorganized data
unorthodox methods
I unpacked my bags as soon as I arrived.
She unpacked all the clothes she needed and left the rest in the case.
She went to her room to unpack.
to unpack a theory
unpaid bills
unpaid work
unpaid leave
unpaid volunteers
Only then did I learn the unpalatable truth.
unpalatable food
It was an unparalleled opportunity to develop her career.
The book has enjoyed a success unparalleled in recent publishing history.
unparliamentary language
She seemed unperturbed by the news.
an unplanned pregnancy
The ball was unplayable (= it was hit so well that it was impossible to hit it back).
When they're good, they're unplayable.
an unpleasant experience
The minerals in the water made it unpleasant to drink.
He was very unpleasant to me.
She said some very unpleasant things about you.
The drink is very sweet, but not unpleasantly so.
He laughed unpleasantly.
an Unplugged concert
Bob Dylan Unplugged
an unpopular choice
an unpopular government
The proposed increase in income tax proved deeply unpopular with the electorate.
the growing unpopularity of the military regime
The situation is unprecedented in modern times.
a period of unprecedentedly high food prices
unpredictable weather
The result is entirely unpredictable.
the unpredictability of the English weather
She was totally unprepared for his response.
She was unprepared to accept that her marriage was over.
unproductive land
an unproductive meeting
I've had a very unproductive day.
She was found guilty of unprofessional conduct.
unprofitable companies
Quite unprompted, Sam started telling us exactly what had happened that night.
Machinery was often unprotected and accidents were frequent.
unproven theories
an act of unprovoked aggression
Her angry outburst was totally unprovoked.
an unpublished novel
He promised that the murder would not go unpunished.
an unqualified instructor
I feel unqualified to comment on the subject.
He was totally unqualified for his job as a senior manager.
The event was not an unqualified success.
I gave her my unqualified support.
He had an unquenchable thirst for life.
a man of unquestionable honesty
It was unquestionably a step in the right direction.
His courage remains unquestioned.
an unquestioned assumption
unquestioning obedience
I unravelled the string and wound it into a ball.
The discovery will help scientists unravel the mystery of the Ice Age.
a pile of unread newspapers
The party began to take on an unreal, almost nightmarish quality.
Many people have unreal expectations of what marriage will be like.
'That's unreal!' she laughed.
unrealistic expectations
It is unrealistic to expect them to be able to solve the problem immediately.
These prices are unrealistically high.
an unrealized ambition
Their potential is unrealized.
unrealized assets
The job was beginning to make unreasonable demands on his free time.
The fees they charge are not unreasonable.
It would be unreasonable to expect somebody to come at such short notice.
He was being totally unreasonable about it.
unreasoning fear
He was unrecognizable without his beard.
The problem of ageism in the workplace often goes unrecognized.
Many crimes go unrecorded.
unrefined sugar
The two events were totally unrelated.
unrelenting pressure
The heat was unrelenting.
He was unrelenting in his search for the truth about his father.
The trains are notoriously unreliable.
He's totally unreliable as a source of information.
the unreliability of some statistics
an unremarkable life
His absence went unremarked.
unremitting hostility
unremittingly gloomy weather
He called me several unrepeatable names.
an unrepeatable experience
Many cases of bullying go unreported.
an unrepresentative sample
He offered us his unreserved apologies.
We apologize unreservedly for any offence we have caused.
a politician who is unresponsive to the mood of the country
industrial/civil/social/political/popular unrest
There is growing unrest in the south of the country.
unrestrained aggression
We have unrestricted access to all the facilities.
Real talent often goes unrewarded.
unripe fruit
We unrolled our sleeping bags.
We watched the events unroll before the cameras.
He remained unruffled by their accusations.
an unruly class
unruly behaviour
unruly hair (= difficult to keep looking neat)
The roof was declared unsafe.
It was considered unsafe to release the prisoners.
unsafe sex (= for example, sex without a condom )
He felt unsafe and alone.
Their convictions were declared unsafe.
Some things are better left unsaid.
unsalted butter
a shallow, unsatisfying relationship
Avocados are high in unsaturated fat.
an unsavoury incident
Her friends are all pretty unsavoury characters.
The hostages emerged from their ordeal unscathed.
an unscheduled stop
an unscientific approach to a problem
I can't unscrew the lid of this jar.
You'll have to unscrew the handles to paint the door.
unscrupulous methods
unseasonable weather
unseasonably warm
unseasonal weather
The horse unseated its rider at the first fence.
unseeded players
They stared unseeingly at the wreckage.
unseen forces
He was killed by a single shot from an unseen soldier.
I managed to slip out of the room unseen.
unseen dangers
The exam consists of an essay and an unseen translation.
unselfish motives
Changing schools might unsettle the kids.
These were difficult and unsettled times.
The weather has been very unsettled (= it has changed a lot).
They all felt restless and unsettled.
an unshaded light bulb
They remain unshaken in their loyalty.
He looked pale and unshaven.
his unshaven face
unskilled manual workers
unskilled work
His eyes were hard and unsmiling.
I work long and unsocial hours.
Many of the houses remain unsold.
unsolicited advice
an unsolved murder/mystery/problem
unsophisticated tastes
unsophisticated equipment
a pile of unsorted papers
ideologically unsound
The use of disposable products is considered ecologically unsound.
The methods used were unsound.
The roof is structurally unsound.
She is unsparing in her criticism.
an unsparing portrait of life in the slums
He won his mother's unsparing approval.
The story takes place at an unspecified date.
He had a steady but unspectacular career.
an unspoken assumption
Something unspoken hung in the air between them.
unsportsmanlike conduct
The political situation remains highly unstable.
chemically unstable
Their reasoning was based on a set of unstated assumptions.
She is still a little unsteady on her feet after the operation.
an unsteady hand
unstinting support
They were unstinting in their praise.
an unstoppable rise in prices
On form, the team was simply unstoppable.
an unsubstantiated claim/rumour, etc.
His efforts to get a job proved unsuccessful.
They were unsuccessful in meeting their objectives for the year.
She made several unsuccessful attempts to see him.
He was wearing shoes that were totally unsuitable for climbing.
They were unsuitably dressed for the occasion.
He is unsuited to academic work.
She was totally unsuited for the job.
the unsung heroes of the war
Their claims are unsupported by research findings.
She has brought up three children unsupported.
Sections of the structure have been left unsupported.
She appeared totally unsurprised at the news.
Unsurprisingly, the plan failed.
There were a lot of things I was unsure about.
I was unsure how to reply to this question.
He was unsure of what to do next.
They were unsure as to what the next move should be.
Like many women, deep down she was unsure of herself.
He had crept up on his unsuspecting victim from behind.
unsustainable growth
unswerving loyalty/support, etc.
I told him about the problem but he was totally unsympathetic.
The government was unsympathetic to public opinion.
'You've only got yourself to blame,' she said unsympathetically.
untapped reserves of oil
His position had become untenable and he was forced to resign.
It was unthinkable that she could be dead.
Suddenly the unthinkable happened and he drew out a gun.
The time has come to think the unthinkable (= consider possibilities that used to be unacceptable).
an untidy desk
untidy hair
Why do you have to be so untidy?
to untie a knot
I quickly untied the package and peeped inside.
He untied the rope and pushed the boat into the water.
Let's wait until the rain stops.
Until she spoke I hadn't realized she wasn't English.
You're not going out until you've finished this.
Until now I have always lived alone.
They moved here in 2009. Until then they'd always been in the London area.
He continued working up until his death.
The street is full of traffic from morning till night.
You can stay on the bus until London (= until you reach London).
She met a tragic and untimely death at 25.
His interruption was untimely.
The angel appeared unto him in a dream.
The knights swore loyalty unto death.
untold misery/wealth
These gases cause untold damage to the environment.
Given his political connections, he thought he was untouchable.
The department's budget is untouchable.
The area has remained relatively untouched by commercial development.
She left her meal untouched.
The final clause in the contract will be left untouched.
That's the plan—unless anything untoward happens.
He had noticed nothing untoward.
untrained in keyboard skills
untrained teachers
To the untrained eye, the products look remarkably similar.
If untreated, the illness can become severe.
untreated sewage
She chose two untried actors for the leading roles.
This is a new and relatively untried procedure.
These accusations are totally untrue.
an untrue claim
It is untrue to say that something like this could never happen again.
If he agreed to their demands, he would have to be untrue to his own principles.
an untypical example
Schools in this area are quite untypical of schools in the rest of the country.
All in all, it had been a not untypical day (= it had been very like other days).
This is an easy routine, designed for anyone who is unused to exercise.
She was unused to talking about herself.
It's unusual for the trees to flower so early.
She has a very unusual name.
It's not unusual for young doctors to work a 70-hour week (= it happens often).
an unusual colour
unusually high levels of radiation
an unusually cold winter
Unusually for him, he wore a tie.
unutterable sadness
It was the plain unvarnished truth.
an unvarying routine
The Queen unveiled a plaque to mark the official opening of the hospital.
They will be unveiling their new models at the Motor Show.
unvoiced consonants such as 'p' and 't'
unwanted advice
unwanted pregnancies
It is very sad when children feel unwanted (= feel that other people do not care about them).
The stock market is full of traps for the unwary.
Much of the criticism was totally unwarranted.
a pile of unwashed dishes
Their clothes were dirty and their hair unwashed.
unwavering support
an unwelcome visitor
To avoid attracting unwelcome attention he kept his voice down.
She said she was feeling unwell and went home.
They are unwilling to invest any more money in the project.
She was unable, or unwilling, to give me any further details.
an unwilling hero
He became the unwilling object of her attention.
to unwind a ball of string
He unwound his scarf from his neck.
The bandage gradually unwound and fell off.
Music helps me unwind after a busy day.
It would be unwise to comment on the situation without knowing all the facts.
an unwise investment
Perhaps unwisely, I agreed to help.
He became an unwitting accomplice in the crime.
She was the unwitting cause of the argument.
She had broken the law unwittingly, but still she had broken it.
He spoke with unwonted enthusiasm.
an unworkable plan
The law as it stands is unworkable.
The landscape had a stark, unworldly beauty.
She appeared unworried by criticism.
He considered himself unworthy of the honour they had bestowed on him.
Such opinions are unworthy of educated people.
feelings of unworthiness
Don't unwrap your present until your birthday.
an unwritten understanding that nobody leaves before five o'clock
The photographs were to be included in his as yet unwritten autobiography.
He jumped up from his chair.
The sun was already up (= had risen) when they set off.
They live up in the mountains.
It didn't take long to put the tent up.
I pinned the notice up on the wall.
Lay the cards face up (= facing upwards) on the table.
You look nice with your hair up (= arranged on top of or at the back of your head).
Up you come! (= said when lifting a child)
She turned the volume up.
Prices are still going up (= rising).
United were 3–1 up at half-time.
The wind is getting up (= blowing more strongly).
Sales are well up on last year.
A car drove up and he got in.
She went straight up to the door and knocked loudly.
We're going up to New York for the day.
(BrE, formal) His son's up at Oxford (= Oxford University).
They've moved up north.
We drove up to Inverness to see my father.
She tore the paper up.
They've had the road up (= with the surface broken or removed) to lay some pipes.
How shall we divide up the work?
We ate all the food up.
The stream has dried up.
The government agreed to set up a committee of inquiry.
She gathered up her belongings.
I have some paperwork to finish up.
Do your coat up; it's cold.
Time's up. Stop writing and hand in your papers.
I stayed up late (= did not go to bed until late) last night.
(BrE) He's up and about again after his illness.
I could tell something was up by the looks on their faces.
What's up? (= What is the matter?)
What's up with him? He looks furious.
Is anything up? You can tell me.
Teachers are up against some major problems these days.
She's really up against it (= in a difficult situation).
The boat bobbed up and down on the water.
She was pacing up and down in front of her desk.
My relationship with him was up and down.
By that time the new system should be up and running.
He came up before the local magistrate for speeding.
The house is up for sale.
Two candidates are up for election.
We're going clubbing tonight. Are you up for it?
It may not have been the worst week of my life but it's up there.
OK, it's not my absolute dream, but it's up there.
I can take up to four people (= but no more than four) in my car.
The temperature went up to 35°C.
Read up to page 100.
Up to now he's been very quiet.
Her latest book isn't up to her usual standard.
He's not up to the job.
I don't feel up to going to work today.
What's she up to?
What've you been up to?
I'm sure he's up to no good (= doing sth bad).
She climbed up the flight of steps.
The village is further up the valley.
We live just up the road, past the post office.
a cruise up the Rhine
I looked up and down the corridor.
an up stroke
the up escalator
The mood here is resolutely up.
Our system should be up by this afternoon.
He upped and left without telling anyone.
The buyers upped their offer by £1 000.
That noise is driving me up the wall.
I mustn't be late or Dad will go up the wall.
upland
upturned
upgrade
uphill
up-and-coming young actors
up-to-the-minute news
up-to-the-minute designs
The tone of the speech was upbeat.
The meeting ended on an upbeat note.
to have had a sheltered upbringing
He was a Catholic by upbringing.
The Universal Product Code symbol, also known as the 'barcode', is printed on products for sale and contains information that a computer can read.
the upcoming presidential election
a single from the band's upcoming album
Plastic straws have been upcycled into jewellery.
This wallet is made from 98% upcycled bicycle inner tubes.
It's about time we updated our software.
I called the office to update them on the day's developments.
Our records are regularly updated.
a news update
The bicycle lay upended in a ditch.
He's been upfront about his intentions since the beginning.
There will be an upfront fee of 4%.
the upgradation of civic facilities in large cities
to upgrade the town's leisure facilities
the latest upheavals in the education system
I can't face the upheaval of moving house again.
a period of emotional upheaval
We have a duty to uphold the law.
to uphold a conviction/an appeal/a complaint
an upholder of traditional values
an uphill climb/slope
The last part of the race is all uphill.
We cycled uphill for over an hour.
The path slopes steeply uphill.
Tenants are responsible for the upkeep of rented property.
He makes payments to his ex-wife for the upkeep of their children.
upland agriculture
an uplift in sales
an uplift bra (= that raises the breasts)
The news gave them a much needed uplift.
a sea of uplifted faces
an uplifting experience/speech
an upmarket restaurant
The company has been forced to move more upmarket.
the upper lip
the upper deck
the upper arm
the upper slopes of the mountain
a member of the upper middle class
salaries at the upper end of the pay scale
There is an upper limit of £20 000 spent on any one project.
the upper reaches of the river
shoes with leather uppers
Headings should be in upper case.
upper-case letters
a member of the upper class/upper classes
Her family is very upper class.
an upper-class accent
the uppermost branches of the tree
These thoughts were uppermost in my mind.
Place the material on a flat surface, shiny side uppermost.
She strode towards them, her fist upraised.
an upright posture
Gradually raise your body into an upright position.
Keep the bottle upright.
an upright freezer (= one that is taller than it is wide)
an upright piano (= one with vertical strings)
an upright citizen
She sat upright in bed.
He managed to pull himself upright.
an armed uprising against the government
a popular uprising (= by the ordinary people of the country)
to crush/suppress an uprising
The room was in (an) uproar.
Her comments provoked (an) uproar from the audience.
The article caused (an) uproar.
an uproarious party
an uproarious story
The audience laughed uproariously.
uproariously funny
We decided to uproot and head for Scotland.
If I accept the job, it will mean uprooting my family and moving to Italy.
an uprush of joy
The pilot project will begin in three areas and then be upscaled to the entire state.
You can usually upsell to about half the customers.
You can make great profits from upselling.
This decision is likely to upset a lot of people.
Don't upset yourself about it—let's just forget it ever happened.
It upset him that nobody had bothered to tell him about it.
It upsets me to think of her all alone in that big house.
He arrived an hour late and upset all our arrangements.
She stood up suddenly, upsetting a glass of wine.
There's no point getting upset about it.
The company has survived the recent upset in share prices.
His health has not been improved by all the upset at home.
a stomach upset
It had been the cause of much emotional upset.
an upsetting experience
The upshot of it all was that he left college and got a job.
The company has invested heavily in upskilling its workforce.
She was furious at being upstaged by her younger sister.
The cat belongs to the people who live upstairs.
I carried her bags upstairs.
She went upstairs to get dressed.
an upstairs room
We've converted the upstairs into an office.
an upstanding member of the community
They retired and went to live upstate.
upstate New York
The nearest town is about ten miles upstream.
upstream of/from the bridge
an upsurge in violent crime
a recent upsurge of interest in his movies
a huge upswell of emotion
an upswept moustache
an upswing in economic activity
an upswing in the team's fortunes
There has been a high uptake of the free training.
the uptake of oxygen by muscles
uptempo dance tunes
The futures market is showing an uptick.
Relax! You're getting too uptight about it.
an uptight teenager
They live in an apartment uptown.
We walked uptown a couple of blocks until we found a cab.
an uptown train
uptown prices
an uptown girl
an upturn in the economy
The restaurant trade is on the upturn.
an upturned nose (= that curves upwards at the end)
She looked down at the sea of upturned faces.
She sat on an upturned box.
an upward gaze
an upward movement in property prices
upwardly mobile immigrant groups
an upwardly mobile lifestyle
A flight of steps led upwards to the front door.
Place your hands on the table with the palms facing upwards.
Bad weather forced the price of fruit upwards.
The budget has been revised upwards.
You should expect to pay upwards of £50 for a hotel room.
to sail upwind
The house was upwind of the factory and its smells (= the wind did not blow the smells towards the house).
damage to both urban and rural environments
urban areas
urban life
urban development (= the process of building towns and cities or making them larger)
urban renewal/regeneration (= the process of improving the buildings, etc. in the poor parts of a town or city)
efforts to control urban sprawl (= the spread of city buildings into the countryside)
today's urban music scene
urban radio shows
an increasingly urbanized society
a dirty little street urchin
She urged him to stay.
The report urged that all children be taught to swim.
'Why not give it a try?' she urged (him).
He urged his horse forward.
She could hear him urging her on as she ran past.
sexual urges
I had a sudden urge to hit him.
an urgent appeal for information
a problem that requires urgent attention
'Can I see you for a moment?' 'Is it urgent?'
Mark the message 'urgent', please.
The law is in urgent need of reform.
an urgent whisper
This is a matter of some urgency.
The attack added a new urgency to the peace talks.
New equipment is urgently needed.
I need to speak to her urgently.
'We must find him,' she said urgently.
Urgh! There's a dead fly in my coffee!
a tea urn
She gave us a picture as a wedding present.
We'll take the dog with us.
Hello, it's us back again.
Give us the newspaper, will you?
She became a US citizen.
the US dollar
Do you need a visa for the USA?
The bike is rusty but usable.
How can we display this data in a usable form?
They are improving the accessibility and usability of government websites.
current English usage
It's not a word in common usage.
land usage
Car usage is predicted to increase.
I'm usually home by 6 o'clock.
We usually go by car.
How long does the journey usually take?
All new PCs now have USB sockets.
a USB port
I'm not used to eating so much at lunchtime.
I found the job tiring at first but I soon got used to it.
I used to smoke, but I gave up a couple of years ago.
We're used to the noise from the traffic now.
I'm used to getting up early.
Don't worry—you'll soon get used to his sense of humour.
I didn't think I could ever get used to living in a big city after living in the country.
used cars
I used to live in London.
We used to go sailing on the lake in summer.
I didn't use to like him much when we were at school.
You used to see a lot of her, didn't you?
I used to go there every Saturday.
Did she use to have long hair?
a useful gadget
It can be useful to write a short summary of your argument first.
He might be useful to us.
These plants are particularly useful for brightening up shady areas.
Don't just sit watching television— make yourself useful!
This information could prove useful.
Your knowledge of German may come in useful (= be useful in a particular situation).
Some products can be recycled at the end of their useful life.
He's a very useful player.
The money could be more usefully spent on new equipment.
There are doubts about the usefulness of these tests.
The building has outlived its usefulness.
This pen is useless.
He knew it was useless to protest.
It's useless worrying about it.
She tried to work, but it was useless (= she wasn't able to).
I'm useless at French.
Don't ask her to help. She's useless.
road users
computer software users
a user manual
user-generated content
Please enter your username.
The secretary ushered me into his office.
The change of management ushered in fresh ideas and policies.
You need to come up with a USP.
USS Oklahoma
She learned classical music from an ustad.
She made all the usual excuses.
He came home later than usual.
She sat in her usual seat at the back.
He didn't sound like his usual happy self.
It is usual to start a speech by thanking everybody for coming.
cooking/kitchen utensils
The Romans were the first to utilize concrete as a building material.
The resources at our disposal could have been better utilized.
the administration of public utilities
an all-round utility player (= one who can play equally well in several different positions in a sport)
This is a matter of the utmost importance.
You should study this document with the utmost care.
Our resources are strained to the utmost.
He did his utmost (= tried as hard as possible) to persuade me not to go.
utopian ideals
a utopian society
That's complete and utter nonsense!
To my utter amazement she agreed.
He felt an utter fool.
We're so utterly different from each other.
She utterly failed to convince them.
to utter a cry
She did not utter a word during lunch (= said nothing).
to give utterance to your thoughts
one of her few recorded public utterances
UV radiation
UVA rays
UVB rays
UVC radiation
England v West Indies
the State vs Kramer (= a case in a court of law)
I was v pleased to get your letter.
'Violin' begins with (a) V/'V'.
Ahead was the deep V of a gorge with water pouring down it.
a 1.5 V battery
He insistently calls, texts and leaves V-mail messages.
a V-neck sweater
a navy V-neck
a V-necked sweater
job vacancies
a temporary vacancy
vacancies for bar staff
to fill a vacancy
I'm sorry, we have no vacancies.
the vacancy of her expression
vacant properties
The seat next to him was vacant.
(especially NAmE) a vacant lot (= a piece of land in a city that is not being used)
When the post finally fell (= became) vacant, they offered it to Fiona.
(BrE) Situations Vacant (= a section in a newspaper where jobs are advertised)
a vacant look
to stare vacantly
Guests are requested to vacate their rooms by noon on the day of departure.
the Christmas/Easter/summer vacation
(BrE) the long vacation (= the summer vacation)
They're on vacation in Hawaii right now.
You look tired—you should take a vacation.
The job includes two weeks' paid vacation.
a vacation home
They are currently vacationing in Florida.
I was vaccinated against tetanus.
Make sure your vaccinations are up to date.
vaccination against typhoid
a measles vaccine
There is no vaccine against HIV infection.
a vacuum pump (= one that creates a vacuum )
vacuum-packed foods (= in a package from which most of the air has been removed)
His resignation has created a vacuum which cannot easily be filled.
to give a room a quick vacuum
Have you vacuumed the stairs?
Crowds gathered in the vicinity of Trafalgar Square.
There is no hospital in the immediate vicinity.
a vacuous expression
to have a vague impression/memory/recollection of sth
They had only a vague idea where the place was.
She's a little vague about her plans for next year.
The politicians made vague promises about tax cuts.
He was accused of being deliberately vague.
We had only a vague description of the attacker.
His vague manner concealed a brilliant mind.
In the darkness they could see the vague outline of a church.
a vaguely worded statement
I can vaguely remember my first day at school.
There was something vaguely familiar about her face.
He was vaguely aware of footsteps behind him.
He smiled vaguely, ignoring her questions.
She closed her eyes tightly in a vain attempt to hold back the tears.
I knocked loudly in the vain hope that someone might answer.
She's too vain to wear glasses.
He shouted after them, vainly trying to attract their attention.
Tents come in various shapes and sizes.
She took the job for various reasons.
There are various ways of doing this.
a large and various country
a wooded vale
the Vale of the White Horse
a valedictory speech
Carbon has a valency of 4.
a car valeting service
valiant warriors
She made a valiant attempt not to laugh.
a valid passport
a bus pass valid for 1 month
They have a valid claim to compensation.
She had valid reasons for not supporting the proposals.
The point you make is perfectly valid.
a valid password
The contract had been validly drawn up.
to validate a theory
to validate a contract
Check that their courses have been validated by a reputable organization.
Be sure to validate your child's feelings—don't minimize them.
She seemed to need his admiration to validate her as a person.
The period of validity of the agreement has expired.
We had doubts about the validity of their argument.
a small town set in a valley
a wooded valley
the valley floor
the Shenandoah Valley
a valuable experience
The book provides valuable information on recent trends.
This advice was to prove valuable.
valuable antiques
Luckily, nothing valuable was stolen.
Surveyors carried out a valuation of the property.
Experts set a high valuation on the painting.
land valuation
She puts a high valuation on trust between colleagues.
to go up/rise/increase in value
to go down/fall/drop in value
rising property values
The winner will receive a prize to the value of £1 000.
Sports cars tend to hold their value well.
to be good/excellent value (= worth the money it costs)
to be bad/poor value (= not worth the money it costs)
Larger sizes give the best value for money.
The value of regular exercise should not be underestimated.
The arrival of canals was of great value to many industries.
to be of little/no value to sb
This ring has great sentimental value for me.
I suppose it has a certain novelty value (= it's interesting because it's new).
food with a high nutritional value
The story has very little news value.
moral values
a return to traditional values in education, such as firm discipline
The young have a completely different set of values and expectations.
Let y have the value 33.
I really value him as a friend.
The area is valued for its vineyards.
a valued member of staff
The property has been valued at over $2 million.
'Freedom fighter' is a value-laden word.
a furniture van
a police van (= for carrying police officers or prisoners)
a delivery van
a van driver
a luggage van
an act of vandalism
The company is proud to be in the vanguard of scientific progress.
(BrE) vanilla essence
(NAmE) vanilla extract
(BrE) a vanilla pod
(NAmE) a vanilla bean
vanilla ice cream
The city is pretty much plain vanilla.
The magician vanished in a puff of smoke.
My glasses seem to have vanished.
He vanished without trace.
the vanishing woodlands of Europe
All hopes of a peaceful settlement had now vanished.
She had no personal vanity (= about her appearance).
the vanity of human ambition in the face of death
Politics is too often concerned only with the personal vanities of politicians.
The cafe was a good vantage point for watching the world go by.
From the vantage point of the present, the war seems to have achieved nothing.
Are you allowed to vape at work?
Many smokers have started vaping e-cigarettes.
Vaping has been banned on public transport.
clouds of vaporous air
water vapour
variable temperatures
The acting is of variable quality (= some of it is good and some of it is bad).
The drill has variable speed control.
variable lighting
With so many variables, it is difficult to calculate the cost.
The temperature remained constant while pressure was a variable in the experiment.
There is a wide variety of patterns to choose from.
He resigned for a variety of reasons.
This tool can be used in a variety of ways.
I was impressed by the variety of dishes on offer.
A variety of reasons were given.
We all need variety in our diet.
We want more variety in our work.
Apples come in a great many varieties.
a rare variety of orchid
different varieties of English
My cooking is of the 'quick and simple' variety.
a variety show/theatre
climatic variability
a degree of variability in the exchange rate
variance in temperature
a note with subtle variances of pitch
This game is a variant of baseball.
variant forms of spelling
The dial records very slight variations in pressure.
Currency exchange rates are always subject to variation.
regional/seasonal variation (= depending on the region or time of year)
This soup is a spicy variation on a traditional favourite.
a set of variations on a theme by Mozart
(figurative) His numerous complaints are all variations on a theme (= all about the same thing).
varied opinions
a wide and varied selection of cheeses
He led a full and varied life.
a plant with variegated leaves
The students' work varies considerably in quality.
The quality of the students' work varies considerably.
New techniques were introduced with varying degrees of success.
The menu varies with the season.
Prices vary according to the type of room you require.
Class numbers vary between 25 and 30.
'What time do you start work?' ' It varies.'
The job enables me to vary the hours I work.
He has been variously described as a hero, a genius and a bully.
The cost has been variously estimated at between £10 million and £20 million.
She's still at varsity.
the varsity match
The doors are then stained and varnished.
(BrE) Josie was sitting at her desk, varnishing her nails.
Her nails were varnished a brilliant shade of red.
a vase of flowers
a vast area of forest
a vast crowd
a vast amount of information
At dusk bats appear in vast numbers.
His business empire was vast.
In the vast majority of cases, this should not be a problem.
the vastness of space
I'm a vastly different person now.
The quality of the training has vastly improved.
distilling vats
a vat of whisky
Prices include VAT.
£27.50 + VAT
She vaulted over the gate and ran up the path.
to vault a fence
a vaulted ceiling/cellar
Their much vaunted reforms did not materialize.
He was awarded the VC.
Captain Edward Bell VC
Acceleration and velocity are both vectors.
The bus veered onto the wrong side of the road.
The debate veered away from the main topic of discussion.
His emotions veered between fear and anger.
The wind veered to the west.
a fruit and veg stall
He likes the traditional meat and two veg for his main meal.
Is she a vegetarian?
Are you vegetarian?
a vegetarian diet (= with no meat or fish in it)
a vegetarian restaurant (= that serves no meat or fish)
green vegetables (= for example cabbage )
root vegetables (= for example carrots)
a salad of raw vegetables
a vegetable garden/patch/plot
vegetable matter (= plants in general)
Severe brain damage turned him into a vegetable.
Since losing my job I've been a vegetable.
a densely/sparsely vegetated area
The hills are covered in lush green vegetation.
He's turned veggie (= become a vegetarian ).
a vehement denial/attack/protest, etc.
He had been vehement in his opposition to the idea.
The charge was vehemently denied.
motor vehicles (= cars, buses, lorries/trucks, etc.)
Are you the driver of this vehicle?
rows of parked vehicles
Art may be used as a vehicle for propaganda.
The play is an ideal vehicle for her talents.
vehicular access
The road is closed to vehicular traffic.
the jugular vein
a vein of gold
They had tapped a rich vein of information in his secretary.
A number of other people commented in a similar vein.
'And that's not all,' he continued in angry vein.
a bridal veil
Their work is carried out behind a veil of secrecy.
It would be better to draw a veil over what happened next (= not talk about it).
The mountain tops were hidden beneath a veil of mist.
A fine drizzle began to veil the hills.
a thinly veiled threat
She made a veiled reference to his past mistakes.
a mysterious veiled woman
thin blue-veined hands
veined marble
the blue veining in Gorgonzola cheese
to have different/conflicting/opposing views
to have strong political views
His views on the subject were well known.
This evidence supports the view that there is too much violence on television.
We take the view that it would be wrong to interfere.
In my view it was a waste of time.
What is needed is a frank exchange of views.
He has an optimistic view of life.
the Christian view of the world
The traditional view was that marriage was meant to last.
The lake soon came into view.
The sun disappeared from view.
There was nobody in view.
Sit down—you're blocking my view.
I didn't have a good view of the stage.
There were magnificent views of the surrounding countryside.
The view from the top of the tower was spectacular.
a sea/mountain view
I'd like a room with a view.
a book with views of Paris
a private view (= for example, of an art exhibition)
He's painting the house with a view to selling it.
When the car was first built, the design was viewed as highly original.
How do you view your position within the company?
She viewed him with suspicion.
People came from all over the world to view her work.
A viewing platform gave stunning views over the valley.
The property can only be viewed by appointment.
The show has a viewing audience of six million (= six million people watch it).
an opportunity to view the movie before it goes on general release
the velocity of light
to gain/lose velocity
a high-velocity rifle
Jaguars can move with an astonishing velocity.
a velvet dress
velvet curtains/drapes
velvety skin
a velvety red wine
venal journalists
He has accused the media of pursuing a vendetta against him.
She conducted a personal vendetta against me.
street vendors
software vendors
Her veneer of politeness began to crack.
a venomous look
a venerable old man
a venerable institution
the Venerable Martin Roberts
The relics were objects of veneration.
a venereal infection
a desire for vengeance
to take vengeance on sb
He swore vengeance on his child's killer.
She set to work with a vengeance.
a look of pure venom
venous blood
air/heating vents
He vented his anger on the referee.
a well-ventilated room
The bathroom is ventilated by means of an extractor fan.
Make sure that there is adequate ventilation in the room before using the paint.
He was put on a ventilator.
a fish's ventral fin
Entertainment included a ventriloquist.
a ventriloquist's dummy
A disastrous business venture lost him thousands of dollars.
They ventured nervously into the water.
He's never ventured abroad in his life.
She hardly dared to venture an opinion.
I ventured to suggest that she might have made a mistake.
'And if I say no?' she ventured.
He ventured that the data might be flawed.
It was wrong to venture his financial security on such a risky deal.
This is the first time the company has ventured into movie production.
The band will be playing at 20 different venues on their UK tour.
Please note the change of venue for this event.
They questioned the veracity of her story.
After dinner, we sat talking on the veranda.
regular/irregular verbs
transitive/intransitive verbs
The job applicant must have good verbal skills.
non-verbal communication (= expressions of the face, gestures, etc.)
a verbal agreement/warning
verbal instructions
a verbal noun
He's a real genius but he has difficulty verbalizing his ideas.
The company had received complaints both verbally and in writing.
a verbatim report
He reported the speech verbatim.
a verbose speaker/style
Has the jury reached a verdict?
The jury returned a verdict (= gave a verdict ) of guilty.
The coroner recorded a verdict of accidental death.
The panel will give their verdict on the latest video releases.
Well, what's your verdict?
a grass verge
Some of his suggestions verged on the outrageous.
very small
very quickly
Very few people know that.
Thanks very much.
'Do you like it?' 'Yeah, I do. Very much.'
'Is it what you expected?' 'Oh yes, very much so.'
'Are you busy?' 'Not very.'
The new building has been very much admired.
I'm not very (= not at all) impressed.
I'm very very grateful.
They wanted the very best quality.
Be there by six at the very latest.
At last he had his very own car (= belonging to him and to nobody else).
I am very hungry.
I was very pleased to get your letter.
You played very well.
I'm very much afraid that your son may be involved in the crime.
Your help was very much appreciated.
He was much loved by everyone.
She was greatly admired.
my very best work
the very youngest children
Your work is very much better.
much younger children
She was absolutely furious.
I'm completely exhausted.
You played really brilliantly.
We enjoyed staying with you very much.
Mario said the very same thing.
Those were her very words.
He might be phoning her at this very moment.
That's the very thing I need.
It happens at the very beginning of the book.
The very thought of drink made him feel sick.
'I can't do that!' she gasped, appalled at the very idea.
We have no way of verifying his story.
Please verify that there is sufficient memory available before loading the program.
I'll leave you to verify whether these claims are true.
Her version of events was verified by neighbours.
a verifiable fact
the verification of hypotheses
To add verisimilitude, the stage is covered with sand for the desert scenes.
The meal that followed was a veritable banquet.
the eternal verities of life
On farms the fox is considered vermin and treated as such.
The room was crawling with vermin.
the vernal equinox
He's a versatile actor who has played a wide variety of parts.
Eggs are easy to cook and are an extremely versatile food.
She is a designer of extraordinary versatility.
Most of the play is written in verse, but some of it is in prose.
a hymn with six verses
a book of comic verses
He was well versed in employment law.
There are two versions of the game, a long one and a short one.
the latest version of the software package
the de luxe/luxury version
Their versions of how the accident happened conflict.
the film version of 'War and Peace'
The English version of the novel is due for publication next year.
It is France versus Brazil in the final.
in the case of the State versus Ford
It was the promise of better job opportunities versus the inconvenience of moving away and leaving her friends.
the vertical axis of the graph
The cliff was almost vertical.
There was a vertical drop to the ocean.
a vertical flow of communication
The wall is several degrees off the vertical.
From the path there was a vertiginous drop to the valley below.
It was a performance of verve and vitality.
ocean-going vessels
a Bronze Age drinking vessel
They have a vested interest in keeping the club as exclusive as possible.
Vested interests (= people with a vested interest) are opposing the plan.
the last vestiges of the old colonial regime
There's not a vestige of truth in the rumour.
vestigial traces of an earlier culture
It is often possible to see the vestigial remains of rear limbs on some snakes.
I've got to take the dog to the vet's tomorrow.
a Vietnam vet
All candidates are carefully vetted for security reasons.
All reports are vetted before publication.
the veteran American actor, Clint Eastwood
war veterans
veterinary medicine/science
The British government used its veto to block the proposal.
to have the power/right of veto
the use of the presidential veto
For months there was a veto on employing new staff.
Plans for the dam have been vetoed by the Environmental Protection Agency.
I wanted to go camping but the others quickly vetoed that idea.
a vexing problem
The conference spent days discussing the vexed question of border controls.
We flew home via Dubai.
I heard about the sale via Jane.
The news programme came to us via satellite.
a viable option/proposition
There is no viable alternative.
to be commercially/politically/financially/economically viable
viable organisms
commercial viability
good/bad vibes
The vibes weren't right.
a jazzy vibes backing
a vibrant city
Thailand is at its most vibrant during the New Year celebrations.
The room was decorated in vibrant reds and yellows.
vibrant rhythms
Every time a train went past the walls vibrated.
The atmosphere seemed to vibrate with tension.
We could feel the vibrations from the trucks passing outside.
a reduction in the level of vibration in the engine
He got a vicarious thrill out of watching his son score the winning goal.
plain-clothes detectives from the vice squad
The film ended most satisfactorily: vice punished and virtue rewarded.
Greed is a terrible vice.
(humorous) Cigarettes are my only vice.
He held my arm in a vice-like (= very firm) grip.
You can cruise from Cairo to Aswan or vice versa (= also from Aswan to Cairo).
vice-captain
the vice-president of sales
a vicious attack
a vicious criminal
She has a vicious temper.
a vicious dog
She wrote me a vicious letter.
a vicious headache
a vicious spiral of rising prices
Police were shocked by the viciousness of the assault.
murder/rape, etc. victims
accident/earthquake/famine, etc. victims
AIDS/cancer/stroke, etc. victims
victims of crime
She was the innocent victim of an arson attack.
Schools are the latest victims of cuts in public spending.
They were the victims of a cruel hoax.
a sacrificial victim
For years the family had been victimized by racist neighbours.
The union claimed that some of its members had been victimized for taking part in the strike.
Victorian architecture
the Victorian age
Victorian attitudes to sex (= being easily shocked by sexual matters)
She advocated a return to Victorian values (= hard work, pride in your country, etc.).
the team's 3–2 victory against Poland
to win a victory
a decisive/narrow victory
an election victory
She is confident of victory in Saturday's final.
victory celebrations/parades
the victorious army/team
He emerged victorious in the elections.
A wedding is the perfect subject for video.
the use of video in schools
The school made a short promotional video.
Upload your videos and share them with friends and family online.
a home video (= not a professional one)
Videoing students can be a useful teaching exercise.
a videotaped interview
Videshi fruit is much more expensive than locally produced fruit.
She was surrounded by men all vying for her attention.
a row of restaurants vying with each other for business
Screaming fans vied to get closer to their idol.
The programme attracted millions of viewers.
Some of her art is intended to shock the viewer.
viewers of the current political scene
Try looking at things from a different viewpoint.
She will have her own viewpoint on the matter.
From a practical viewpoint, I'd advise you not to go.
The artist has painted the scene from various viewpoints.
His parents kept a round-the-clock vigil at his bedside.
A pilot must remain vigilant at all times.
She stressed the need for constant vigilance.
a vigorous campaign against tax fraud
a vigorous opponent of the government
Take vigorous exercise for several hours a week.
a vigorous young man
This plant is a vigorous grower.
He worked with renewed vigour and determination.
We visited towns and villages all over Spain.
a fishing/mountain/seaside village
(especially BrE) the village shop
Her books are about village life.
The whole village was invited to the party.
a vile smell
The weather was really vile most of the time.
the vile practice of taking hostages
the vilification of single parents by right-wing politicians
We rented a holiday villa in Spain.
a Victorian villa in North London
He often plays the part of the villain.
the heroes and villains of the 20th century
Industrialized nations are the real environmental villains.
lamb vindaloo
I have every confidence that this decision will be fully vindicated.
New evidence emerged, vindicating him completely.
Anti-nuclear protesters regarded the Chernobyl accident as a clear vindication of their campaign.
He accused her of being vindictive.
a vindictive comment
grapes on the vine
vine leaves
malt/wine vinegar
onions pickled in vinegar
a vinegary wine
the 1999 vintage
2005 was a particularly fine vintage.
The vintage was later than usual.
a collection of vintage designs
vintage TV drama
The opera is vintage Rossini.
2008 was not a vintage year for the movies.
My dad had to buy CDs of all the albums he already owned on vinyl.
a viola player
to violate international law
She accused the press photographers of violating her privacy.
to violate a grave
They were in open violation of the treaty.
gross violations of human rights
crimes/acts/threats of violence
He condemned the protesters' use of violence against the police.
domestic violence (= between family members)
Why do they always have to resort to violence?
Violence broke out/erupted inside the prison last night.
Is there too much sex and violence on TV?
The violence of her feelings surprised him.
violent crime
Students were involved in violent clashes with the police.
He met with a violent death (= he was murdered, killed in a fight, etc.).
Her husband was a violent man.
The crowd suddenly turned violent.
Children should not be allowed to watch violent movies (= that show a lot of violence).
There was a violent reaction from the public.
I took a violent dislike to him.
a violent explosion
a violent change
a violent headache
Her dress was a violent pink.
She shook her head violently.
to shiver violently
He was violently sick.
They are violently opposed to the idea.
The crowd reacted violently.
dressed in violet
violet eyes
Brahms' violin concerto
the VIP lounge
to get the VIP treatment
a viral infection
a viral email
Within 24 hours, the video went viral on YouTube and Facebook.
a political virgin
an Internet virgin
virgin forest/land/territory
virgin snow (= fresh and not marked)
a virgin bride
the virgin birth (= the belief that Mary was a virgin before and after giving birth to Jesus)
She was dressed in virginal white.
He lost his virginity (= had sex for the first time) when he was 18.
the flu virus
a virus infection
There's a virus going around the office.
a virile performance
virile athleticism
displays of male virility
a need to prove his virility
economic virility
The country was sliding into a state of virtual civil war.
The company has a virtual monopoly in this area of trade.
He married a virtual stranger.
New technology has enabled development of an online 'virtual library'.
to be virtually impossible
Virtually all students will be exempt from the tax.
He virtually admitted he was guilty.
This year's results are virtually the same as last year's.
He led a life of virtue.
She was certainly no paragon of virtue!
Patience is not one of her virtues, I'm afraid.
The plan has the virtue of simplicity.
He was extolling the virtues of the Internet.
They could see no virtue in discussing it further.
a piano virtuoso
a virtuoso performance
a virtuoso pianist
technical virtuosity
a performance of breathtaking virtuosity
a wise and virtuous man
She lived an entirely virtuous life.
He was feeling virtuous because he had finished and they hadn't.
virulent criticism
virulent nationalism
Britain's role vis-à-vis the United States
It was felt that the company had an unfair advantage vis-à-vis smaller companies elsewhere.
to apply for a visa
an entry/a tourist/a transit/an exit visa
good/poor/bad/zero visibility
Visibility was down to about 100 metres in the fog.
The car has excellent all-round visibility (= you can see what is around you very easily from it).
high visibility equipment for cyclists
The advertisements were intended to increase the company's visibility in the marketplace (= to make people more aware of their products and services).
The house is clearly visible from the beach.
Most stars are not visible to the naked eye.
visible benefits
a visible police presence
He showed no visible sign of emotion.
She made a visible effort to control her anger.
He was visibly shocked.
She paled visibly at the news.
She had a visceral dislike of all things foreign.
the viscid lining of the intestine
He held my arm in a vise-like (= very firm) grip.
to have good/perfect/poor/blurred/normal vision
20–20 vision (= the ability to see perfectly)
Cats have good night vision.
The couple moved outside her field of vision.
He glimpsed something on the edge of his vision.
He had a vision of a world in which there would be no wars.
I had visions of us getting hopelessly lost.
The idea came to her in a vision.
a leader of vision
She was a vision in white lace.
a vision of loveliness
We apologize for the loss of vision.
a visionary leader
visionary experiences
She went to visit relatives in Wales.
The Prime Minister is visiting Japan at the moment.
You should visit your dentist at least twice a year.
For more information, visit our website.
We don't live here. We're just visiting.
The lake is also visited by seals in the summer.
government inspectors visiting schools
The sins of the fathers are visited upon the children (= children are blamed or suffer for what their parents have done).
Come and visit with me some time.
It's my first visit to New York.
They're on an exchange visit to France.
If you have time, pay a visit to the local museum.
We had a visit from the police last night.
Is this a social visit, or is it business?
a visit to the doctor
(BrE) a home visit (= when your doctor visits you)
Visits to our website have doubled in a year.
She is seeking more liberal visitation with her daughter.
visitation rights
a visitation of plague
We've got visitors coming this weekend.
Do you get many visitors?
She's a frequent visitor to the US.
The theme park attracts 2.5 million visitors a year.
How can we attract more visitors to our website?
This new job could open up whole new vistas for her.
I have a very good visual memory.
the visual arts
The building makes a tremendous visual impact.
visually handicapped/impaired
visually exciting
He used striking visuals to get his point across.
Try to visualize him as an old man.
I can't visualize what this room looked like before it was decorated.
It can help to visualize yourself making your speech clearly and confidently.
She couldn't visualize climbing the mountain.
Ultrasound is a technique that uses sound waves to visualize internal structures.
the vitamins that are vital for health
Good financial accounts are vital to the success of any enterprise.
Reading is of vital importance in language learning.
It is vital that you keep accurate records when you are self-employed.
the vital organs (= the brain, heart, lungs, etc.)
She is bursting with vitality and new ideas.
Education is vitally important for the country's future.
breakfast cereals enriched with vitamins
vitamin deficiency
vitamin pills
Oranges are rich in vitamin C.
vitreous enamel
The newspaper launched a vitriolic attack on the president.
a vituperative attack
He had three pretty, vivacious daughters.
He was charmed by her beauty and vivacity.
vivid memories
He gave a vivid account of his life as a fighter pilot.
vivid blue eyes
I vividly remember the day we first met.
the vividness of my dream
four major colleges of surgery, viz. London, Glasgow, Edinburgh and Dublin
I just finished watching Bob's vlog. Impressive!
to have a wide/limited vocabulary
your active vocabulary (= the words that you use)
your passive vocabulary (= the words that you understand but don't use)
Reading will increase your vocabulary.
The word 'failure' is not in his vocabulary (= for him, failure does not exist).
When did the word 'bungalow' first enter the vocabulary?
The word has become part of advertising vocabulary.
the vocal organs (= the tongue, lips, etc.)
He has been very vocal in his criticism of the government's policy.
The protesters are a small but vocal minority.
backing vocals
In this recording Armstrong himself is on vocals.
the vocalizations of animals
Showing children pictures sometimes helps them to vocalize their ideas.
Your baby will begin to vocalize long before she can talk.
a lead/guest/backing vocalist
to communicate vocally
They protested vocally.
Nursing is not just a job—it's a vocation.
She believes that she has found her true vocation in life.
You missed your vocation—you should have been an actor.
He has a vocation for teaching.
She is a doctor with a strong sense of vocation.
a vocation to the priesthood
vocational education/qualifications/training
the vocative case
vociferous protests
a vociferous critic of the president's stance
to complain vociferously
She plans to create a vodcast tour of her studio for the Art at Work month.
Many newspapers are choosing to use podcasting and vodcasting to reach a wider audience.
I'll have a vodka and lime.
They bid 3m rand voetstoots or 5m rand if the property was renovated.
the vogue for child-centred education
Black is in vogue again.
I could hear voices in the next room.
to speak in a deep/soft/loud/quiet, etc. voice
'I promise,' she said in a small voice (= a quiet, shy voice).
to raise/lower your voice (= to speak louder/more quietly)
Keep your voice down (= speak quietly).
Don't take that tone of voice with me!
Her voice shook with emotion.
'There you are,' said a voice behind me.
When did his voice break (= become deep like a man's)?
He was suffering from flu and had lost his voice (= could not speak).
She has a good singing voice.
She was in good voice (= singing well) at the concert tonight.
low-voiced
squeaky-voiced
Employees should have a voice in the decision-making process.
He pledged that his party would listen to the voice of the people.
Very few dissenting voices were heard on the right of the party.
the voice of reason/sanity/conscience
'Coward!' a tiny inner voice insisted.
The various opposition parties speak with one voice on this issue.
to voice complaints/criticisms/doubts/objections, etc.
A number of parents have voiced concern about their children's safety.
She earns a lot of money doing voice-overs for TV commercials.
Below him was nothing but a black void.
(figurative) The void left by his mother's death was never filled.
The sky was void of stars.
The agreement was declared void.
void spaces
the Complete Works of Byron Vol. 2
a highly volatile personality
a highly volatile situation from which riots might develop
a volatile exchange rate
Petrol is a volatile substance.
volcanic rocks
volcanic eruptions
An active volcano may erupt at any time.
a dormant volcano (= one that is not active at present)
an extinct volcano (= one that is no longer active)
They left entirely of their own volition (= because they wanted to).
She hit a forehand volley into the net.
A volley of shots rang out.
Police fired a volley over the heads of the crowd.
She faced a volley of angry questions from her mother.
He volleyed the ball into the back of the net.
a voluntary agreement
Attendance on the course is purely voluntary.
to pay voluntary contributions into a pension fund
(BrE) He took voluntary redundancy.
I do some voluntary work at the local hospital.
She works there on a voluntary basis.
voluntary services/bodies/agencies/organizations (= organized, controlled or supported by people who choose to do this and are usually not paid)
the voluntary sector (= organizations which are set up to help people and which do not make a profit, for example charities)
a voluntary worker
volunteer helpers
Schools need volunteers to help children to read.
Are there any volunteers to help clear up?
Jill volunteered to organize a petition.
Several staff members volunteered for early retirement.
He volunteered his services as a driver.
to volunteer advice
to volunteer for military service
They volunteered me for the job of interpreter.
a high security fence with 5 000 volts passing through it
high/low voltage
This represents a volte-face in government thinking.
Evelyn was very voluble on the subject of women's rights.
voluble protests
How do you measure the volume of a gas?
jars of different volumes
the sheer volume (= large amount) of business
This work has grown in volume recently.
New roads are being built to cope with the increased volume of traffic.
Sales volumes fell 0.2% in June.
to turn the volume up/down
an encyclopedia in 20 volumes
a library of over 50 000 volumes
a slim volume of poetry
'New Scientist' volume 142, number 3
a voluminous skirt
I sank down into a voluminous armchair.
He was not asked to leave—he went voluntarily.
The fund is voluntarily administered.
a voluptuous woman
a voluptuous body
voluptuous perfume
The smell made her want to vomit.
He had vomited up his supper.
The injured man was vomiting blood.
a voracious eater
to have a voracious appetite
a voracious reader
a boy with a voracious and undiscriminating appetite for facts
They were caught up in a whirling vortex of emotion.
a votary of John Keats
There were 21 votes for and 17 against the motion, with 2 abstentions.
The motion was passed by 6 votes to 3.
The chairperson has the casting/deciding vote.
The Green candidate won over 3 000 of the 14 000 votes cast.
to have/take a vote on an issue
The issue was put to the vote.
The vote was unanimous.
She obtained 40% of the vote.
The party increased their share of the vote.
the student vote
the Labour vote
In Britain and the US, people get the vote at 18.
Did you vote for or against her?
How did you vote at the last election?
Over 60% of members voted in favour of (= for) the motion.
We'll listen to the arguments on both sides and then vote on it.
Only about half of the electorate bothered to vote.
We voted Democrat in the last election.
Parliament voted to set up an independent inquiry into the matter.
He was voted most promising new director.
The event was voted a great success.
The directors have just voted themselves a huge pay increase.
I vote (that) we go out to eat.
He was voted in as treasurer.
She was voted onto the board of governors.
He was voted out of office.
A proposal to merge the two companies was voted through yesterday.
A clear majority of voters were in favour of the motion.
Only 60% of eligible voters actually used their vote.
He was eliminated in the first round of voting.
Voting will take place on May 1.
tactical voting
to be of voting age
votive offerings
Are you willing to vouch for him?
I can vouch for her ability to work hard.
I was in bed with the flu. My wife can vouch for that.
a voucher for a free meal
a travel voucher
This discount voucher entitles you to 10% off your next purchase.
He vouchsafed to me certain family secrets.
to make/take a vow
to break/keep a vow
to break your marriage vows
Nuns take a vow of chastity.
She vowed never to speak to him again.
He vowed (that) he had not hurt her.
They vowed eternal friendship.
'I'll be back,' she vowed.
vowel sounds
Each language has a different vowel system.
an around-the-world voyage
a voyage in space
The Titanic sank on its maiden voyage (= first journey).
(figurative) Going to college can be a voyage of self-discovery.
a voyeuristic interest in other people's lives
Vroom! A sports car roared past.
a vulgar man
vulgar decorations
She found their laughter and noisy games coarse and rather vulgar.
vulgar jokes
He eyed her vulgarly.
¾ and ⅝ are vulgar fractions.
She was offended by the vulgarity of their jokes.
a pornographic magazine full of vulgarities
to be vulnerable to attack
She looked very vulnerable standing there on her own.
In cases of food poisoning, young children are especially vulnerable.
The sudden resignation of the financial director put the company in a very vulnerable position.
financial vulnerability
the vulnerability of newborn babies to disease
vultures circling/wheeling overhead
'Water' begins with (a) W/'W'.
a 100W light bulb
the schedule for w/c 19 November
That movie was really wack.
wacky ideas
Some of his friends are pretty wild and wacky characters.
wacko opinions
He pulled a thick wad of £10 notes out of his pocket.
(BrE, slang) They had a wad/wads of money (= a large amount).
The nurse used a wad of cotton wool to stop the bleeding.
She walked with a waddle.
He waded into the water to push the boat out.
Sometimes they had to wade waist-deep through mud.
They waded the river at a shallow point.
The police waded into the crowd with batons.
You shouldn't have waded in with all those unpleasant accusations.
I spent the whole day wading through the paperwork on my desk.
a pair of waders
a waffle iron (= for making waffles with)
The report is just full of waffle.
The principal waffled on about exam results but no one was listening.
The senator was accused of waffling on major issues.
The sound of their voices wafted across the lake.
Delicious smells wafted up from the kitchen.
The scent of the flowers was wafted along by the breeze.
wafts of perfume/smoke
to wag school
Wags at the World Cup
wages of £200 a week
wage cuts
a wage increase of 3%
(BrE) a wage rise of 3%
wage demands/claims/settlements
Wages are paid on Fridays.
There are extra benefits for people on low wages.
The staff have agreed to a voluntary wage freeze (= a situation in which wages are not increased for a time).
The rebels have waged a guerrilla war since 2007.
He alleged that a press campaign was being waged against him.
We have two wage earners in the family.
waged workers
waged employment
She always wagered on an outsider.
to wager £50 on a horse
I had wagered a great deal of money that I would beat him.
I'll wager that she knows more about it than she's saying.
waggish remarks
Can you waggle your ears?
a hangover of Wagnerian proportions
What is your name?
What (= what job) does he do?
What time is it?
What kind of music do you like?
What you need is a good meal.
Nobody knows what will happen next.
I spent what little time I had with my family.
What awful weather!
What a beautiful house!
What? I can't hear you.
'Mummy!' 'What?' 'I'm thirsty.'
'It will cost $500.' 'What?'
'I asked her to marry me.' ' You what? '
What about a trip to France?
What about you, Joe? Do you like football?
What is this tool for?
What did you do that for (= why did you do that)?
'I need to see a doctor.' 'What for?'
What if the train is late?
What if she forgets to bring it?
Yes, I wrote the article. What of it?
They dropped their best player. What's up with that?
She certainly knows what's what.
What's with you? You haven't said a word all morning.
What's with all this walking? Can't we take a cab?
What with the cold weather and my bad leg, I haven't been out for weeks.
the waifs and strays of our society (= people with no home)
waif-like young girls
The little girl was wailing miserably.
women wailing and weeping
'It's broken,' she wailed.
There's no point wailing about something that happened so long ago.
Ambulances raced by with sirens wailing.
a high-pitched wailing
a wail of despair
the distant wail of sirens
He put his arm around her waist.
She was paralysed from the waist down (= in the area below her waist).
The workmen were stripped to the waist (= wearing no clothes on the top half of their bodies).
a skirt with an elasticated waist
a high-waisted dress
The water was waist-deep.
We waded waist-deep into the muddy water.
waist-high grass
The grass had grown waist-high.
an elasticated waistband
an expanding waistline
She rang the bell and waited.
Have you been waiting long?
I've been waiting (for) twenty minutes.
I'll wait outside until the meeting's over.
Wait for me!
We're waiting for the rain to stop before we go out.
Hurry up! We're waiting to go.
You'll just have to wait your turn (= wait until your turn comes).
Leeds United had waited for success for eighteen years.
This is just the opportunity I've been waiting for.
He's waiting for me to make a mistake.
I waited my chance and slipped out when no one was looking.
There's a letter waiting for you at home.
The hotel had a taxi waiting to collect us.
I've got some calls to make but they can wait until tomorrow.
We'll just have to wait and see—there's nothing we can do at the moment.
a wait-and-see policy
'Where are we going?' 'Wait and see!'
They're off on a trip, to—wait for it—the Maldives!
Wait till you see what I've found!
If the car needs cleaning, what are you waiting for?
She is waiting on the result of a blood test.
We sheltered in a doorway to wait out the storm.
We had a long wait for the bus.
He now faces an agonizing two-month wait for the test results.
She was on a wait list for a liver transplant.
He's been wait-listed for a football scholarship to Stanford.
I'll ask the waitress for the bill.
Waiter, could you bring me some water?
No waiting (= on a sign at the side of the road, telling vehicles that they must not stop there).
There are no places available right now but I'll put you on a waiting list.
There's a waiting list to join the golf club.
(BrE) The government has promised to cut hospital waiting lists.
I did some waitressing when I was a student.
What time do you usually wake up in the morning?
I always wake early in the summer.
Wake up! It's eight o'clock.
(formal) They woke to a clear blue sky.
(formal) She had just woken from a deep sleep.
He woke up to find himself alone in the house.
Try not to wake the baby up.
I was woken by the sound of someone moving around.
The incident woke memories of his past sufferings.
Wake up and listen!
A cold shower will soon wake you up.
The class needs waking up.
He hasn't yet woken up to the seriousness of the situation.
I asked for a wake-up call at 6.30 a.m.
These riots should be a wake-up call for the government.
He lay wakeful all night.
She had spent many wakeful nights worrying about him.
The child had just wakened.
I was wakened by a knock at the door.
The dream wakened a forgotten memory.
She spends all her waking hours caring for her mother.
the dreamlike state between waking and sleeping
The baby is just learning to walk.
'How did you get here?' 'I walked.'
He walked slowly away from her.
The door opened and Jo walked in.
She missed the bus and had to walk home.
The school is within easy walking distance of the train station.
Children here walk several miles to school.
He could hear someone creeping around downstairs.
One player limped off the field with a twisted ankle.
I found him in the corridor nervously pacing up and down.
She spent the morning padding about the house in her slippers.
They wearily plodded home through the rain.
The queue gradually shuffled forward.
They staggered out of the pub, completely drunk.
She stomped out of the room, slamming the door behind her.
Families were strolling around the park.
They tiptoed upstairs so they wouldn't wake the baby.
We trudged up the hill.
We're going walking in the mountains this summer.
I walked across Scotland with a friend.
They love walking the moors.
They walk their dogs every day.
Lock up any valuables. Things tend to walk here (= be stolen).
It's not a difficult exam. You'll walk it!
Is it safe to walk the streets alone at night?
You can talk the talk but can you walk the walk?
She walked away with the gold medal.
I realized I'd walked into a trap.
We walked off a heavy Sunday lunch.
How could she walk out on her kids?
I never walk out on a job half done.
She'll always let him walk all over her.
She walked me through a demonstration of the software.
Let's go for a walk.
I like to have a walk in the evenings.
She's taken the dog for a walk.
He set out on the long walk home.
The office is ten minutes' walk from here.
a ten-minute walk
It's only a short walk to the beach.
a circular walk
There are some interesting walks in the area.
a guided walk around the farm
I recognized him by his walk.
The horse slowed to a walk.
a walk-in closet
a walk-in interview
a walk-in clinic
The coastal path is a popular route for walkers.
He now needs a walker to get around.
to go for walkies
to go walking
walking boots
a walking holiday in Scotland
She's a walking dictionary (= she knows a lot of words).
The fields were divided by stone walls.
He sat on the wall and watched the others playing.
I'm going to paint the walls white and the ceiling pink.
Hang the picture on the wall opposite the window.
She leaned against the wall.
The boat struck a solid wall of water.
The investigators were confronted by a wall of silence.
the abdominal wall
the wall of an artery
a walled city
Share prices fell on Wall Street today.
Wall Street responded quickly to the news.
wall-mounted lights
wall-to-wall carpets/carpeting
wall-to-wall TV sports coverage
office wallahs
a Delhi wallah
a document wallet
stone walling
a firm that does paving and walling
We walloped them 6–0.
Our team got a real walloping last week.
They had to pay a walloping great fine.
hippos wallowing in the river
He loves to wallow in a hot bath after a game.
She wallowed in the luxury of the hotel.
to wallow in despair/self-pity (= to think about your unhappy feelings all the time and seem to be enjoying them)
pigs having a wallow in the mud
wallpaper paste
a roll of wallpaper
to hang wallpaper
to dance a/the waltz
a Strauss waltz
I watched them waltzing across the floor.
He waltzed her around the room.
I don't like him waltzing into the house as if he owned it.
The recruits have waltzed through their training.
He just waltzed off with my car!
his grey, wan face
She gave me a wan smile (= showing no energy or enthusiasm).
He smiled wanly.
The fairy waved her wand and the table disappeared.
You can't expect me to just wave a (magic) wand and make everything all right again.
a mascara wand
She wandered aimlessly around the streets.
We wandered back towards the car.
The child was found wandering the streets alone.
The child wandered off and got lost.
They had wandered from the path into the woods.
It's easy to be distracted and let your attention wander.
Try not to let your mind wander.
Her thoughts wandered back to her youth.
She let her gaze wander.
His eyes wandered towards the photographs on the wall.
The road wanders along through the hills.
I went to the park and had a wander around.
Her enthusiasm for the whole idea was waning rapidly.
She had wangled an invitation to the opening night.
We should be able to wangle it so that you can start tomorrow.
He managed to wangle his way onto the course.
I'll try to wangle some money out of my parents.
He had wangled her a seat on the plane.
a bunch of wankers
I wanna go.
Wanna drink?(= Do you want…)
Do you want some more tea?
She's always wanted a large family.
All I want is the truth.
Thanks for the present—it's just what I wanted.
I can do whatever I want.
The last thing I wanted was to upset you.
The party wants her as leader.
What do you want to do tomorrow?
'It's time you did your homework.' 'I don't want to!'
There are two points which I wanted to make.
I just wanted to know if everything was all right.
(informal) You can come too, if you want.
Do you want me to help?
We didn't want this to happen.
I want it (to be) done as quickly as possible.
I don't want you coming home so late.
Do you want your coffee black or white?
We'll want more furniture for the new office.
What this house wants is a good clean.
The plants want watering daily.
The plants want to be watered daily.
She's wanted immediately in the director's office.
Excuse me, you're wanted on the phone.
If possible, you want to avoid alcohol.
He wants to be more careful.
You don't want to do it like that.
He doesn't want courage.
He's ensured that his children will want for nothing (= will have everything they need).
I had to discover what I really wanted out of life.
What do you want from me?
The dog wants in.
He wants in on the deal.
Jenny was fed up. She wanted out.
She spent her life pandering to the wants of her children.
a want of adequate medical facilities
Visitors to the slums were clearly shocked to see so many families living in want.
He is wanted by the police in connection with the deaths of two people.
Italy's most wanted man
The students were certainly not wanting in enthusiasm.
This explanation is wanting in many respects.
The new system was tried and found wanting.
wanton destruction
a wanton disregard for human life
a WAP-enabled phone
the Second World War
the threat of (a) nuclear war
to win/lose a/the war
the war between England and Scotland
England's war with/against Scotland
It was the year Britain declared war on Germany.
Social and political problems led to the outbreak (= the beginning) of war.
Where were you living when war broke out?
The government does not want to go to war (= start a war) unless all other alternatives have failed.
How long have they been at war?
a war hero
(formal) In the Middle Ages England waged war on France.
More troops are being despatched to the war zone.
(formal) the theatre of war (= the area in which fighting takes place)
the class war
a trade war
The government has declared war on drug dealers.
We seem to be winning the war against crime.
He warbled his way through the song.
a maternity/surgical/psychiatric/children's, etc. ward
He worked as a nurse on the children's ward.
The child was made a ward of court.
to ward off criticism
She put up her hands to ward him off.
a forest warden
(BrE) the warden of a youth hostel
the Warden of Wadham College, Oxford
a fitted wardrobe
everything you need for your summer wardrobe
ceramic ware
a collection of local ware
basketware
bathroom ware
ornamental ware
homeware
He travelled from town to town selling his wares.
air/naval/guerrilla, etc. warfare
countries engaged in warfare
class/gang warfare
The debate soon degenerated into open warfare.
nuclear warheads
Be wary of strangers who offer you a ride.
She was wary of getting involved with him.
He gave her a wary look.
The police will need to keep a wary eye on this area of town (= watch it carefully, in case there is trouble).
The cat eyed him warily.
feelings of wariness
There was a wariness in her tone.
a warlike nation
warlike preparations
a warm breeze
Wash the blouse in warm soapy water.
It's nice and warm in here.
Are you warm enough?
The children jumped up and down to keep warm.
You'll be as warm as toast in here.
a warm pair of socks
This sleeping bag is very warm.
a warm house
His smile was warm and friendly.
The speaker was given a warm welcome/reception.
Please send her my warmest congratulations.
The room was decorated in warm shades of red and orange.
Keep guessing—you're getting warmer.
They were warmly dressed in coats and scarves.
The play was warmly received by the critics.
I'll warm up some milk.
Come in and warm yourself by the fire.
The alcohol warmed and relaxed him.
As the climate warms (up) the ice caps will melt.
I warmed to her immediately.
The speaker was now warming to her theme.
The party soon warmed up.
Come inside into the warm.
Wrap up warm before you go outside!
warm-up exercises
a warm-up act
a plate warmer
atmospheric warming
the warming rays of the sun
a warming drink
She felt the warmth of his arms around her.
The animals huddled together for warmth.
He led the child into the warmth and safety of the house.
They were touched by the warmth of the welcome.
I tried to warn him, but he wouldn't listen.
If you're thinking of getting a dog, be warned —they take a lot of time and money.
He warned us against pickpockets.
Police have warned of possible delays.
She was warned that if she did it again she would lose her job.
I had been warned what to expect.
'Beware of pickpockets,' she warned (him).
The guidebook warns against walking alone at night.
He warned Billy to keep away from his daughter.
The referee warned him for dangerous play.
The farmer warned us off his land when we tried to camp there.
We were warned off buying the house.
Doctors issued a warning against eating any fish caught in the river.
to give sb fair/advance/adequate warning of sth
The bridge collapsed without (any) warning.
Let me give you a word of warning.
a government health warning
to give sb a verbal/written/final warning
She had ignored the warning signs of trouble ahead.
Police fired a number of warning shots.
Warning bells began to ring (= it was a sign that sth was wrong) when her letters were returned unopened.
The window frames had begun to warp.
His judgement was warped by prejudice.
a warped mind
a warped sense of humour
an arrest warrant
They issued a warrant for her arrest.
They had a warrant to search the house.
There is no warrant for such criticism.
Further investigation is clearly warranted.
The situation scarcely warrants their/them being dismissed.
Warrant Officer Gary Owen
The television comes with a full two-year warranty.
Is the car still under warranty?
(figurative) The offices were a warren of small rooms and passages.
A ceasefire has been agreed by the country's three warring factions.
a warrior nation (= whose people are skilled in fighting)
a Zulu warrior
She still loves him, warts and all.
Different rules applied in wartime.
Fruit was a luxury in wartime Britain.
to wash the car
to wash your hands
Wash the fruit thoroughly before eating.
She washed the blood from his face.
The beach had been washed clean by the tide.
I washed and changed before going out.
She was no longer able to wash herself.
This sweater washes well.
Water washed over the deck.
Pieces of the wreckage were washed ashore.
He was washed overboard by a huge wave.
Part of the path had been washed away by the sea.
Wash down the walls before painting them.
For lunch we had bread and cheese, washed down with beer.
Those grease stains won't wash off.
Wash that mud off your boots before you come in.
These ink stains won't wash out.
to wash out empty bottles
Wash the dye out with shampoo.
The game was completely washed out.
Waves of nausea washed over him.
She manages to let criticism just wash over her.
Go and get washed up.
I didn't wash up the pans.
The body was found washed up on a beach.
These towels are ready for a wash.
I'll just have a quick wash before dinner.
I'm doing a dark wash (= washing all the dark clothes together).
Your shirt's in the wash (= being washed or waiting to be washed).
My sweater shrank in the wash.
That blouse shouldn't look like that after only two washes.
The dinghy was rocked by the wash of a passing ferry.
They listened to the wash of waves on the beach.
The walls were covered with a pale yellow wash.
an antiseptic skin wash
machine washable (= that can be washed in a washing machine)
She didn't like jeans that looked too washed out.
a pair of washed-out old jeans
The walls were a washed-out blue colour.
He always looks washed out at the end of the week.
Her singing career was all washed up by the time she was 27.
a gentle shampoo for frequent washing
I do the washing (= wash the clothes) in our house.
a pile of dirty washing
Would you hang the washing out (= hang it outside to dry)?
If you cook, I'll do the washing-up.
a washing-up bowl
The sink was still full of last night's washing-up.
a wasp sting
a wasps' nest
a privileged Wasp background
It was a new production technique aimed at minimizing wastage.
There is little wastage from a lean cut of meat.
Half of the posts will be lost through natural wastage.
student wastage rates
to waste time/food/energy
Why waste money on clothes you don't need?
She wasted no time in rejecting the offer (= she rejected it immediately).
You're wasting your time trying to explain it to him (= because he will not understand).
Don't waste your sympathy on him—he got what he deserved.
Her comments were not wasted on Chris (= he understood what she meant).
It was a wasted opportunity.
You're wasted as a sales manager—you should have been an actor.
I hate unnecessary waste.
It seems such a waste to throw good food away.
I hate to see good food go to waste (= be thrown away).
The report is critical of the department's waste of resources.
What a waste of paper!
These meetings are a complete waste of time.
They believe the statue is a waste of taxpayers' money.
household/industrial waste
toxic wastes
waste disposal (= the process of getting rid of waste)
The farmers use both animal and human waste as fertilizer.
the frozen wastes of Siberia
The car was found on a piece of waste ground.
waste plastic
We had a wasted trip—they weren't in.
thin wasted legs
The whole process is wasteful and inefficient.
an engine that is wasteful of fuel
industrial wasteland
the desert wastelands of Arizona
(figurative) The mid 1970s are seen as a cultural wasteland for rock music.
He's a time-waster.
municipal water and wastewater systems
a wastewater treatment plant
to watch television/a football game
He watched the house for signs of activity.
He watched for signs of activity in the house.
'Would you like to play?' 'No thanks—I'll just watch.'
We watched to see what would happen next.
She watched the kids playing in the yard.
They watched the bus disappear into the distance.
Could you watch my bags for me while I buy a paper?
Watch yourself!(= be careful, because you're in a dangerous situation)
Watch your bag—there are thieves around.
I have to watch every penny (= be careful what I spend).
Watch your head on the low ceiling.
Hey, watch where you're going!
I'll have to watch the time. I need to leave early today.
We sat outside a cafe, watching the world go by.
The cat was on the wall, watching for birds.
Watch out! There's a car coming!
The cashiers were asked to watch out for forged banknotes.
Watch out for the stairs—they're steep.
She kept looking anxiously at her watch.
My watch is fast/slow.
The police have mounted a watch outside the hotel.
I'll keep watch while you go through his papers (= watch and warn you if somebody is coming).
The government is keeping a close watch on how the situation develops.
I'm on first watch.
I go on watch in an hour.
a consumer watchdog
an industry/a market watcher
Her expression was watchful and alert.
His mother kept a watchful eye on him.
The children played under the watchful eye of their teacher.
Quality is our watchword.
a glass of water
drinking water
water pollution
clean/dirty water
water shortages
There is hot and cold running water in all the bedrooms.
We walked down to the water's edge.
She fell into the water.
shallow/deep water
In the lagoon the water was calm.
the grey waters of the River Clyde
This species is found in coastal waters around the Indian Ocean.
She dived under the water.
The leaves floated on the water.
We were still in British waters.
fishing in international waters
The conversation got into the murky waters of jealousy and relationships.
The government has warned of stormy waters ahead.
to water the plants/garden
The smoke made my eyes water.
The smells from the kitchen made our mouths water.
to water the horses
(humorous) After a tour of the grounds, the guests were fed and watered.
The valley is watered by a stream.
watered wine
It was a story they'd shared around the water cooler.
a clean/contaminated water supply
to improve the water supply to rural villages
a water-repellent coating
a water-resistant jacket
cholera and other waterborne diseases
waterborne goods
a waterfront apartment
a waterless barren region
They couldn't play because the pitch was waterlogged.
This was the point at which he was to meet his Waterloo.
waterproof clothing
a waterproof camera
You'll need waterproofs (= a waterproof jacket and trousers/pants).
The middle decades of the 19th century marked a watershed in Russia's history.
the 9 o'clock watershed
They strolled down to the waterside.
a waterside cafe
We snorkelled and did some waterskiing.
a watertight container
a watertight alibi
The case has to be made watertight.
inland waterways
a navigable waterway
a watery fluid
His eyes were red and watery.
(literary) She was rescued from a watery grave (= saved from drowning).
a watery sun
His eyes were a watery blue.
a watery smile (= weak and without much feeling)
watery soup
civil servants who seem to think the world ends north of Watford
a 60-watt light bulb
walls made of wattle and daub
Huge waves were breaking on the shore.
Surfers flocked to the beach to ride the waves.
the gentle sound of waves lapping
Children were playing in the waves.
Seagulls bobbed on the waves.
The wind made little waves on the pond.
a wave of opposition/protest/violence, etc.
a crime wave
A wave of fear swept over him.
Guilt and horror flooded her in waves.
A wave of panic spread through the crowd.
Wave after wave of aircraft passed overhead.
She declined the offer with a wave of her hand.
He gave us a wave as the bus drove off.
radio/sound/ultrasonic waves
The people on the bus waved and we waved back.
Why did you wave at him?
A man in the water was shouting and waving his arms around frantically.
She waved her hand dismissively at the housekeeper.
My mother was crying as I waved her goodbye.
My mother was crying as I waved goodbye to her.
She waved vaguely in the direction of the house.
'He's over there,' said Ali, waving a hand towards some trees.
I showed my pass to the security guard and he waved me through.
Crowds lined the route, waving flags and cheering.
'I'm rich!' she exclaimed, waving the money under his nose.
The flag waved in the breeze.
His hair waves naturally.
She's had her hair waved.
My objections to the plan were waved aside.
a radio set with medium and short wavebands
His voice wavered with emotion.
Her determination never wavered.
She never wavered in her determination to succeed.
She's wavering between buying a house in the city or moving away.
The strength of his argument convinced the waverers.
brown wavy hair
a pattern of wavy lines
styling wax for the hair
floor wax
wax crayons
wax polish
waxed paper
a waxed jacket
to wax your legs/to have your legs waxed
He waxed lyrical on the food at the new restaurant.
waxen images
a waxen face
She was in a mess and could see no way out.
way-out ideas
I got waylaid on my way here.
Turn right where you see a waymark arrow.
waymarked routes
a wayside inn
wild flowers growing by the wayside
a wayward child
wayward emotions
We've moved to Atlanta.
We'd (= the company would) like to offer you the job.
Why don't we go and see it together?
We should take more care of our historic buildings.
She is still weak after her illness.
His legs felt weak.
She suffered from a weak heart.
That bridge is too weak for heavy traffic.
a weak and cowardly man
In a weak moment (= when I was easily persuaded) I said she could borrow the car.
a weak leader
The unions have always been weak in this industry.
a weak currency
The economy is very weak.
a weak team
I was always weak in the science subjects.
weak arguments
I enjoyed the movie but I thought the ending was very weak.
a weak light/signal/sound
a weak smile
He made a weak attempt to look cheerful.
weak tea
The team's weak points are in defence.
He knew her weak spot where Steve was concerned.
The team has been weakened by injury.
The new evidence weakens the case against her.
His authority is steadily weakening.
The explosion had weakened the building's foundations.
She felt her legs weaken.
You must not agree to do it. Don't weaken.
Nothing could weaken his resolve to continue.
She smiled weakly at them.
'I'm not sure about it,' he said weakly.
The sudden weakness in her legs made her stumble.
the weakness of the dollar against the pound
He thought that crying was a sign of weakness.
It's important to know your own strengths and weaknesses.
Can you spot the weakness in her argument?
He has a weakness for chocolate.
a person of wealth and influence
His personal wealth is estimated at around $100 million.
the distribution of wealth in Britain
The purpose of industry is to create wealth.
Good education often depends on wealth.
a wealth of information
The new manager brings a great wealth of experience to the job.
a wealthy nation
The couple are said to be fabulously wealthy.
They live in a wealthy suburb of Chicago.
The doctor tried to wean her off sleeping pills.
He was weaned on a diet of rigid discipline and duty.
nuclear weapons
a lethal/deadly weapon
The police still haven't found the murder weapon.
Education is the only weapon to fight the spread of the disease.
Guilt is the secret weapon for the control of children.
high-tech weaponry
US weaponry
They may have weaponized quantities of anthrax.
She was wearing a new coat.
Do I have to wear a tie?
Was she wearing a seat belt?
He wore glasses.
All delegates must wear a badge.
She always wears black (= black clothes).
She wears her hair long.
to wear a beard
He wore a puzzled look on his face.
His face wore a puzzled look.
The carpets are starting to wear.
The sheets have worn thin.
The stones have been worn smooth by the constant flow of water.
I've worn holes in all my socks.
That carpet is wearing well, isn't it?
(figurative, humorous) You're wearing well—only a few grey hairs!
The inscription on the coin had worn away.
The steps had been worn away by the feet of thousands of pilgrims.
Notice how the tread on this tyre has worn down.
Her persistence paid off and she eventually wore me down.
The effects of the drug will soon wear off.
As the evening wore on, she became more and more nervous.
He wore out two pairs of shoes last year.
The kids have totally worn me out.
You'll wear yourself out if you carry on working so hard.
casual/evening, etc. wear
children's/ladies' wear
casual clothes for everyday wear
These woollen suits are not designed for wear in hot climates.
You should get years of wear out of that carpet.
His shoes were beginning to show signs of wear.
The straps can be adjusted to suit the wearer.
contact lens wearers
a weary traveller
She suddenly felt old and weary.
a weary sigh
a weary journey
Students soon grow weary of listening to a parade of historical facts.
He closed his eyes wearily.
She soon wearied of his stories.
He's now trying to weasel out of our agreement.
hot/cold/wet/fine/summer/windy, etc. weather
Did you have good weather on your trip?
I'm not going out in this weather!
There's going to be a change in the weather.
if the weather holds/breaks (= if the good weather continues/changes)
The weather is very changeable at the moment.
'Are you going to the beach tomorrow?' 'It depends on the weather.'
We'll have the party outside, weather permitting (= if it doesn't rain).
a weather map/chart
a weather report
to listen to the weather
This brick weathers to a warm pinkish-brown colour.
Her face was weathered by the sun.
The company just managed to weather the recession.
She refuses to resign, intending to weather the storm (= wait until the situation improves again).
a weatherboard house
The finished roof should be weatherproof for years.
a weatherproof jacket
The baskets are woven from strips of willow.
The strips of willow are woven into baskets.
threads woven together
Most spiders weave webs that are almost invisible.
She is skilled at spinning and weaving.
She deftly wove the flowers into a garland.
to weave a narrative
The biography weaves together the various strands of Einstein's life.
She was weaving in and out of the traffic.
The road weaves through a range of hills.
He had to weave his way through the milling crowds.
A spider had spun a perfect web outside the window.
a web of streets
We were caught in a tangled web of relationships.
I found the information on the Web.
If you are starting your own business you can buy affordable web hosting or host your own website.
a web hosting business/company/provider/service
We learned how to create and register a new web page.
a Web-enabled interface
Our company uses webinars to train representatives in other countries.
a Poe webliography
a selected webliography on new Irish poetry
I found this information on their website.
For current prices please visit our website.
The couple plan to wed next summer.
Rock star to wed top model (= in a newspaper headline ).
She's wedded to her job.
your lawfully wedded husband
to live together in wedded bliss
a wedding present
a wedding ceremony/reception
Have you been invited to their wedding?
She looked beautiful on her wedding day.
All her friends could hear wedding bells (= they thought she would soon get married).
Today's our wedding anniversary.
He hammered the wedge into the crack in the stone.
(figurative) I don't want to drive a wedge between the two of you (= to make you start disliking each other).
a wedge of cake
shoes with wedge heels
a pair of wedges
The boat was now wedged between the rocks.
She wedged herself into the passenger seat.
to wedge the door open
children born in/out of wedlock (= whose parents are/are not married)
a wee girl
Just a wee drop of milk for me.
I felt a wee bit guilty about it.
to do/have a wee
a puddle of wee
Do you need to wee?
The yard was overgrown with weeds.
I wish I could give up the weed (= stop smoking).
I've been weeding the flower beds.
a weedy little man
last/this/next week
It rained all week.
What day of the week is it?
He comes to see us once a week.
a two-week vacation
The course lasts five weeks.
a week ago today (= seven days ago)
She'll be back in a week.
They live in town during the week and go to the country for the weekend.
(BrE) I never have the time to go out in the week.
a 35-hour week
The firm is introducing a shorter working week.
Week after week the drought continued.
Week by week he grew a little stronger.
Every Sunday, week in, week out, she goes to her parents for lunch.
a week-long visit to Rome
week-long courses
The centre is open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on weekdays.
open weekdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Are you doing anything over the weekend?
Have a good weekend!
It happened on the weekend of 24 and 25 April.
(BrE) The office is closed at the weekend.
(especially NAmE) The office is closed on the weekend.
(BrE, informal) I like to go out on a weekend.
We go skiing most weekends in winter.
He won a weekend for two in Rome.
a weekend break
They're weekending in Paris.
weekly meetings
a weekly magazine
Employees are paid weekly.
The newspaper is published twice weekly.
I have to stay in on weeknights.
Don't be such a weenie!
Weren't you just a weeny bit scared?
She started to weep uncontrollably.
I could have wept thinking about what I'd missed.
He wept for joy.
I do not weep over his death.
She wept bitter tears of disappointment.
I wept to see him looking so sick.
'I'm so unhappy!' she wept.
His legs were covered with weeping sores (= sores which had not healed).
Sometimes you feel better for a good weep.
She was feeling tired and weepy.
a weeping willow/fig/birch
When did you last see him?
When can I see you?
When (= in what circumstances) would such a solution be possible?
Sunday is the only day when I can relax.
There are times when I wonder why I do this job.
The last time I went to Scotland was in May, when the weather was beautiful.
Until when can you stay?
'I've got a new job.' 'Since when?'
I loved history when I was at school.
Call me when you've finished.
Can you spare five minutes when it's convenient?
He had just drifted off to sleep when the phone rang.
How can they expect to learn anything when they never listen?
She claimed to be 18, when I know she's only 16.
How much do you weigh (= how heavy are you)?
She weighs 60 kilos.
These cases weigh a ton (= are very heavy).
He weighed himself on the bathroom scales.
She weighed the stone in her hand (= estimated how heavy it was by holding it).
You must weigh up the pros and cons (= consider the advantages and disadvantages of sth).
She weighed up all the evidence.
I weighed the benefits of the plan against the risks involved.
His past record weighs heavily against him.
The responsibilities of the job are weighing her down.
He is weighed down with guilt.
I was weighed down with baggage.
Both boxers weighed in at several pounds below the limit.
We all weighed in with our suggestions.
Finally the government weighed in with financial aid.
The responsibilities weigh heavily on him.
Something was weighing on her mind.
She weighed out a kilo of flour.
It is about 76 kilos in weight.
Bananas are sold by weight.
In the wild, this fish can reach a weight of 5lbs.
She is trying to lose weight (= become less heavy and less fat).
He's put on/gained weight (= become heavier and fatter) since he gave up smoking.
Sam has a weight problem (= is too fat).
No more for me. I have to watch my weight.
He staggered a little under the weight of his backpack.
I just hoped the branch would take my weight.
The pillars have to support the weight of the roof.
Don't put any weight on that ankle for at least a week.
The doctor said he should not lift heavy weights.
weights on a fishing line
The full weight of responsibility falls on her.
The news was certainly a weight off my mind (= I did not have to worry about it any more).
Finally telling the truth was a great weight off my shoulders.
The many letters of support added weight to the campaign.
The President has now offered to lend his weight to the project.
Your opinion carries weight with the boss.
How can you ignore the sheer weight of medical opinion?
The weight of evidence against her is overwhelming.
tables of weights and measures
imperial/metric weight
a set of weights
She lifts weights as part of her training.
He does a lot of weight training.
The fishing nets are weighted with lead.
The results of the survey were weighted to allow for variations in the sample.
a weighted vote (= one that is worth more than a single vote)
(NAmE) a weighted grade (= given at school for a course that is more advanced or harder and so has a higher value)
The proposal is weighted towards smaller businesses.
Everything seemed weighted against them.
The course is heavily weighted in favour of engineering.
weighty matters
a weighty volume/tome
Each of the factors is given a weighting on a scale of 1 to 10.
Each question in the exam has equal weighting.
Astronauts work in weightless conditions.
She wields enormous power within the party.
He was wielding a large knife.
a weird dream
She's a really weird girl.
He's got some weird ideas.
It's really weird seeing yourself on television.
the weird and wonderful creatures that live beneath the sea
She began to make weird inhuman sounds.
The town was weirdly familiar.
The whole concept really weirds me out.
The kids all behaved well.
The conference was very well organized.
Well done! (= expressing admiration for what sb has done)
His campaign was not going well.
These animals make very good pets if treated well (= with kindness).
People spoke well of (= spoke with approval of) him.
She took it very well (= did not react too badly), all things considered.
They lived well (= in comfort and spending a lot of money) and were generous with their money.
She was determined to marry well (= marry sb rich and/or with a high social position).
She is well dressed.
a well-dressed woman
better-known poets
the best-dressed person in the room
Add the lemon juice and mix well.
The surface must be well prepared before you start to paint.
How well do you know Carla?
He's well able to take care of himself.
(BrE, informal) I was well annoyed, I can tell you.
He was driving at well over the speed limit.
a well-loved tale
The castle is well worth a visit.
He liked her well enough (= to a reasonable degree) but he wasn't going to make a close friend of her.
She could well afford to pay for it herself.
You may well be right.
It may well be that the train is delayed.
I can't very well leave now.
I couldn't very well refuse to help them, could I?
'What are we doing here?' ' You may well ask (= I don't really know either).'
If we got Terry to do that, we'd be well away.
She seems to be well in with all the right people.
I don't feel very well.
Is she well enough to travel?
Get well soon! (= for example, on a card)
I'm better now, thank you.
(informal) He's not a well man.
It seems that all is not well at home.
All's well that ends well (= used when sth has ended happily, even though you thought it might not).
It would be just as well to call and say we might be late.
(formal) It would be well to start early.
Well, well —I would never have guessed it!
Well, really! What a thing to say!
Well, thank goodness that's over!
Well, it can't be helped.
'We lost.' ' Oh, well. Better luck next time.'
Well, I suppose I could fit you in at 3.45.
Oh, very well, then, if you insist.
Well, as I was saying…
'Do you want to come?' 'Well, I'm not sure.'
Well? Are you going to tell us or not?
Well, I'd better be going now.
I think it happened, well, towards the end of last summer.
There were thousands of people there—well, hundreds, anyway.
Tears were welling up in her eyes.
Hate welled up inside him as he thought of the two of them together.
They were at the door to welcome us.
a welcoming smile
It is a pleasure to welcome you to our home.
They welcomed the new volunteers with open arms (= with enthusiasm).
I'd welcome any suggestions.
I warmly welcome this decision.
In general, the changes they had made were to be welcomed.
a welcome sight
Your letter was very welcome.
The fine weather made a welcome change.
Children are always welcome at the hotel.
Our neighbours made us welcome as soon as we arrived.
I had the feeling we were not welcome at the meeting.
They're welcome to stay here as long as they like.
It's an awful job. If you want it, you're welcome to it!
'Thanks for your help.' 'You're welcome.'
Thank you for your warm welcome.
The winners were given an enthusiastic welcome when they arrived home.
a speech/smile of welcome
to receive a hero's welcome
This new comedy deserves a warm welcome.
The proposals were given a cautious welcome by the trade unions.
Welcome home!
Welcome to Oxford!
Good evening everybody. Welcome to the show!
to weld a broken axle
The car has had a new wing welded on.
All the parts of the sculpture have to be welded together.
They had welded a bunch of untrained recruits into an efficient fighting force.
The crisis helped to weld the party together.
We are concerned about the child's welfare.
The state is still the main provider of welfare.
child welfare
a social welfare programme
welfare provision/services/work
They would rather work than live on welfare.
You would be well advised to tackle this problem urgently.
a well-attended conference
a well-balanced diet
The team was not well balanced.
His response was well balanced.
a well-behaved child
The audience was surprisingly well behaved.
a well-bred young lady
She was too well bred to show her disappointment.
well-defined rules
These categories are not well defined.
He had a well-developed sense of his own superiority.
The problem is well documented.
well-documented facts
He prefers his steak well done.
This is what today's well-dressed man is wearing.
a well-earned rest
well-endowed colleges
a well-established firm
He is now well established in his career.
well-fed family pets
The animals all looked well fed and cared for.
well-founded suspicions
His fear turned out to be well founded.
a well-informed decision
well-kept gardens
a well-known actor
His books are not well known.
It is a well-known fact that caffeine is a stimulant.
a well-matched couple
The two teams were well matched.
a well-meaning attempt to be helpful
He's very well meaning.
well-meant comments
His offer was well meant.
a well-off family
They are much better off than us.
I've got my own room so I'm well off.
Some people don't know when they're well off.
The system ran like a well-oiled machine.
well-paid managers
The job is very well paid.
well-rounded individuals
a well-rounded education
a well-run hotel
Their family has always been well thought of around here.
a well-timed intervention
Your remarks were certainly well timed.
a well-tried method
a well-turned phrase
a well-used path
a well-worn jacket
Most British visitors beat a well-worn path to the same tourist areas of the US.
emotional/physical/psychological well-being
to have a sense of well-being
Defence was well-nigh impossible against such opponents.
a well-to-do family
They're very well-to-do.
a pair of green wellies
He wellied the ball over the bar.
a pair of wellingtons
'I'm not in the habit of welshing on deals,' said Don.
Do you speak Welsh?
Welsh poetry
a welter of information
a welterweight champion
Leo wended his way home through the wet streets.
Which way is west?
Rain is spreading from the west.
He lives to the west of (= further west than) the town.
I was born in Japan, but I've lived in the West for some years now.
the history of the American West
West Africa
the west coast of Scotland
This room faces west.
westbound traffic
the westbound carriageway of the motorway
travelling in a westerly direction
westerly gales
light westerlies
western Spain
Western Europe
the western slopes of the mountain
Western art
The islands have been westernized by the growth of tourism.
a westernized society
the westernmost tip of the island
The rumours were still circulating at Westminster.
to turn westwards
in a westward direction
wet clothes
wet grass
You'll get wet (= in the rain) if you go out now.
Try not to get your shoes wet.
His face was wet with tears.
We were all soaking wet (= extremely wet).
Her hair was still dripping wet.
My shirt was wet through (= completely wet).
a wet day
a wet climate
It's wet outside.
It's going to be wet tomorrow.
It was the wettest October for many years.
Keep off! Wet paint.
'Don't be so wet,' she laughed.
Wet the brush slightly before putting it in the paint.
Come in out of the wet.
The dog shook the wet from its coat.
Tory wets
wet-look hair gel
The wetlands are home to a large variety of wildlife.
wetland birds
She whacked him with her handbag.
James whacked the ball over the net.
Just whack your bags in the corner.
He gave the ball a good whack.
I heard the whack of the bullet hitting the wood.
Don't leave all the work to her. Everyone should do their fair whack.
You have to pay the full whack. There are no reductions.
He charges top whack (= the highest amount possible).
I'm whacked!
a whacking great hole in the roof
They were fined a whacking £100 000.
whale meat
The bombs went down—wham!—right on target.
I saw him yesterday and—wham!—I realized I was still in love with him.
With this government we've had a double whammy of tax increases and benefit cuts.
When I listen to the news these days, I sometimes wonder what the world is coming to.
Have you got a whatchamacallit? You know… a screwdriver?
Take whatever action is needed.
Do whatever you like.
Whatever decision he made I would support it.
You have our support, whatever you decide.
Whatever do you mean?
Chocolate-flavoured carrots! Whatever next?
'You should try a herbal remedy.' 'Yeah, whatever.'
'What would you like to do today?' 'Whatever.'
Don't tell Paul, whatever you do!
They received no help whatever.
'Is there any doubt about it?' 'None whatsoever.'
We told him we'd back him whatever.
I don't even really care. Well, okay, I do, but whatevs.
It's made with about 100 gms raw nuts (cashew or whatev), 2 handfuls dates, carob or cocoa to taste.
It's a new firm. They make toys and whatnot.
I've got to make a whatsit for the party. That's it—a flan.
wheat flour
He has a wheatish complexion.
The kids can always wheedle money out of their father.
She wheedled me into lending her my new coat.
'Come on, Em,' he wheedled.
He braked suddenly, causing the front wheels to skid.
One of the boys was pushing the other along in a little box on wheels.
This is the first time I've sat behind the wheel since the accident.
A car swept past with Laura at the wheel.
Do you want to take the wheel (= drive) now?
At last he had his own wheels.
gear wheels
the wheels of bureaucracy/commerce/government, etc.
It was Rob's idea. I merely set the wheels in motion (= started the process).
a sixteen-wheeled lorry
a three-wheeler
There are wheels within wheels in this organization—you never really know what is going on.
She wheeled her bicycle across the road.
The nurse wheeled him along the corridor.
Birds wheeled above us in the sky.
She wheeled around and started running.
He wheeled his horse back to the gate.
They wheeled out the same old arguments we'd heard so many times before.
Does the hotel have wheelchair access?
He's been confined to a wheelchair since the accident.
wheelchair users
to do a wheelie
He was coughing and wheezing all night.
'I have a chest infection,' she wheezed.
I'm wheezy today.
a wheezy cough
They returned whence they had come.
You can ask for help whenever you need it.
Whenever she comes, she brings a friend.
The roof leaks whenever it rains.
We try to help whenever possible.
'When do you need it by?' 'Saturday or Sunday. Whenever.'
It's not urgent—we can do it next week or whenever.
Whenever did you find time to do all that cooking?
His whereabouts are/is still unknown.
Whereabouts did you find it?
Some of the studies show positive results, whereas others do not.
They have introduced a new system whereby all employees must undergo regular training.
Where do you live?
I wonder where they will take us to.
Where (= at what point) did I go wrong in my calculations?
Where (= in what book, newspaper, etc.) did you read that?
Just where (= to what situation or final argument) is all this leading us?
It's one of the few countries where people drive on the left.
We then moved to Paris, where we lived for six years.
This is where I live.
Sit where I can see you.
Where people were concerned, his threshold of boredom was low.
That's where (= the point in the argument at which) you're wrong.
Sit wherever you like.
He comes from Boula, wherever that may be (= I don't know where it is).
Wherever she goes, there are crowds of people waiting to see her.
Use wholegrain breakfast cereals wherever possible.
Wherever can he have gone to?
Wherein lies the difference between conservatism and liberalism?
I know whereof I speak (= I know a lot about what I am talking about).
He told her she was a liar, whereupon she walked out.
They lacked the wherewithal to pay for the repairs.
The book will whet your appetite for more of her work.
He seemed undecided whether to go or stay.
It remains to be seen whether or not this idea can be put into practice.
I asked him whether he had done it all himself or whether someone had helped him.
I'll see whether she's at home (= or not at home).
It's doubtful whether there'll be any seats left.
You are entitled to a free gift whether you accept our offer of insurance or not.
I'm going whether you like it or not.
Whether or not we're successful, we can be sure that we did our best.
Whew—and I thought it was serious!
Ten grand? Whew!
Choose whichever brand you prefer.
Pensions should be increased annually in line with earnings or prices, whichever is the higher.
Whichever of you gets here first will get the prize.
It takes three hours, whichever route you take.
The situation is an awkward one, whichever way you look at it.
Whichever they choose, we must accept their decision.
a whiff of cigar smoke
He caught a whiff of perfume as he leaned towards her.
a whiff of danger
He was forced to pander to her every whim.
We bought the house on a whim.
My duties seem to change daily at the whim of the boss.
the whims of fashion
She hires and fires people at whim.
The child was lost and began to whimper.
'Don't leave me alone,' he whimpered.
to have a whimsical sense of humour
Much of his writing has a whimsical quality.
'I want to go home,' whined Toby.
The dog whined and scratched at the door.
a whiny voice/tone
a whiny kid/brat
the steady whine of the engine
She's always whingeing about how unfair everything is.
He cracked his whip and the horse leapt forward.
the chief whip
A branch whipped across the car window.
Her hair whipped around her face in the wind.
The waves were being whipped by 50 mile an hour winds.
She whipped the mask off her face.
The man whipped out a knife.
Serve the pie with whipped cream.
Whip the egg whites up into stiff peaks.
The team whipped its opponents by 35 points.
We whipped through customs in ten minutes.
The advertisements were designed to whip up public opinion.
He was a speaker who could really whip up a crowd.
She whipped up a delicious lunch for us in 15 minutes.
He was very bruised and suffering from whiplash.
The clock began to whir before striking the hour.
the whir of a motor
There was a whirring of machinery.
Leaves whirled in the wind.
She whirled around to face him.
the whirling blades of the helicopter
Tom whirled her across the dance floor.
I couldn't sleep—my mind was whirling from all that had happened.
So many thoughts whirled around in her mind.
a whirl of dust
(figurative) Her mind was in a whirl (= in a state of confusion or excitement).
Her life was one long whirl of parties.
It's easy to get caught up in the social whirl.
the whirligig of fashion
(figurative) She felt she was being dragged into a whirlpool of emotion.
To recover from the divorce, I threw myself into a whirlwind of activities.
a whirlwind romance
a whirlwind tour of America
Whisk the egg whites until stiff.
Jamie whisked her off to Paris for the weekend.
The waiter whisked away the plates before we had finished.
an electric whisk
a bottle of whisky
Scotch whisky
highland whiskies
a whisky and soda
Two whiskies, please.
Don't you know it's rude to whisper?
What are you two whispering about?
'Can you meet me tonight?' he whispered.
She leaned over and whispered something in his ear.
He whispered to me that he was afraid.
It was whispered that he would soon die and he did.
They spoke in whispers.
Her voice dropped to a whisper.
I could hear the whispering of the sea.
I've heard whispers that he's leaving.
The referee finally blew the whistle to stop the game.
He scored the winning goal just seconds before the final whistle.
a shrill whistle
The train whistle blew as we left the station.
a factory whistle
to whistle a tune
He whistled in amazement.
The crowd booed and whistled as the player came onto the field.
She whistled to the dog to come back.
Workmen whistled at her as she walked past.
The referee whistled for a foul.
The kettle began to whistle.
The microphone was making a strange whistling sound.
The wind whistled down the chimney.
A bullet whistled past his ear.
to go on a whistle-stop tour of Europe
politicians on a whistle-stop election campaign
Whit Monday
a crisp white shirt
white bread
a set of perfect white teeth
His hair was as white as snow.
The horse was almost pure white in colour.
white middle-class families
She writes about her experiences as a black girl in a predominantly white city.
white with shock
She went white as a sheet when she heard the news.
Two white coffees, please.
Do you take your coffee black or white?
the pure white of the newly painted walls
She was dressed all in white.
Would you like red or white?
a very dry white
Use the whites of two eggs.
The whites of her eyes were bloodshot.
(BrE) Don't wash whites and coloureds together.
(NAmE) Don't wash whites and colors together.
cricket/tennis whites
The government must be seen to be whiter than white.
The new office block has become an expensive white elephant.
to raise/show/wave the white flag
He was once the great white hope of British boxing.
The White House has issued a statement.
White House aides
dressed in white tie and tails
a stretch of white water
white-water rafting
a bottle of dry white wine
chilled white wine
a white-bread town
white-collar workers
a white-collar job
white-collar crime (= in which office workers steal from their company, etc.)
Is it a white-tie affair?
Whitehall are/is refusing to comment.
He gripped the wheel until his knuckles whitened.
Snow had whitened the tops of the trees.
The opposition claimed the report was a whitewash.
a 7–0 whitewash
a whitewash victory
His wife had wanted to whitewash his reputation after he died.
Whither should they go?
They did not know whither they should go.
the place whither they were sent
Whither modern architecture?
a bird with a whitish throat
He whittled a simple toy from the piece of wood.
He whittled the piece of wood into a simple toy.
I finally managed to whittle down the names on the list to only five.
A bullet whizzed past my ear.
He whizzed down the road on his motorbike.
She whizzed through the work.
She's a whizz at crosswords.
financial whizz-kids
a whizzy new handheld computer
Who is that woman?
I wonder who that letter was from.
Who are you phoning?
Who's the money for?
The people who called yesterday want to buy the house.
The people (who) we met in France have sent us a card.
Mrs Smith, who has a lot of teaching experience at junior level, will be joining the school in September.
And then Mary, who we had been talking about earlier, walked in.
Who are you to tell me I can't park here?
You'll soon find out who's who in the office.
The list of delegates attending read like a who's who of the business world.
Whoever says that is a liar.
Send it to whoever is in charge of sales.
Come out of there, whoever you are.
I don't want to see them, whoever they are.
Whoever heard of such a thing!
The plan was given wholehearted support.
to agree wholeheartedly
wholly inappropriate behaviour
The government is not wholly to blame for the recession.
wholesale prices
the wholesale slaughter of innocent people
We buy the building materials wholesale.
These young people die wholesale from heroin overdoses.
fruit and vegetable wholesalers
fresh, wholesome food
It was clean wholesome fun.
The company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a large multinational.
Whom did they invite?
To whom should I write?
The author whom you criticized in your review has written a reply.
Her mother, in whom she confided, said she would support her unconditionally.
Who did you invite to the party?
To whom should I address the letter?
He asked me with whom I had discussed it.
Who should I address the letter to?
He asked me who I had discussed it with.
The family (who/that/whom) I met at the airport were very kind.
Our doctor, who/whom we all liked very much, retired last week.
He was free to marry whomever he chose.
whoops of delight
Whoopee, we've won!
Whoops! Careful, you almost spilt coffee everywhere.
Whoops, you weren't supposed to hear that.
a whoosh of air
There was a whoosh as everything went up in flames.
Pete has caught a whopper (= a large fish).
She's told some whoppers about her past.
The company made a whopping 75 million dollar loss.
the whorls on your fingertips
Whose house is that?
I wonder whose this is.
He's a man whose opinion I respect.
It's the house whose door is painted red.
Isobel, whose brother he was, had heard the joke before.
Why were you late?
Tell me why you did it.
'I would like you to go.' ' Why me? '
(informal) Why oh why do people keep leaving the door open?
Why get upset just because you got one bad grade?
Why bother to write? We'll see him tomorrow.
That's why I left so early.
I know you did it—I just want to know why.
The reason why the injection needs repeating every year is that the virus changes.
Why ever didn't you tell us before?
Why not write to her?
'Let's eat out.' ' Why not? '
Why don't we go together?
Why Jane, it's you!
Why, it's easy—a child could do it!
Wool socks wick away sweat.
a wicked deed
stories about a wicked witch
a wicked grin
Jane has a wicked sense of humour.
He has a wicked punch.
a wicked-looking knife
This song's wicked.
Martin grinned wickedly.
a wickedly funny comedy
a wickedly sharp blade
a wicker chair
a wide river
Sam has a wide mouth.
a jacket with wide lapels
Her face broke into a wide grin.
How wide is that stream?
It's about 2 metres wide.
The road was just wide enough for two vehicles to pass.
a wide range/choice/variety of goods
Her music appeals to a wide audience.
Jenny has a wide circle of friends.
a manager with wide experience of industry
It's the best job in the whole wide world.
The incident has received wide coverage in the press.
The festival attracts people from a wide area.
There are wide variations in prices.
the wider aims of the project
We are talking about education in its widest sense.
a broad river
a broad stretch of meadowland
a wide/broad range of products
All of us are in broad agreement on this matter.
She stared at him with wide eyes.
Her shot was wide (of the target).
a nationwide search
We need to act on a Europe-wide scale.
The door was wide open.
The championship is still wide open (= anyone could win).
She had a fear of wide-open spaces.
He stood with his legs wide apart.
In a few seconds she was wide awake.
Open your mouth wide.
She stared at him in wide-eyed amazement.
The commission has been given wide-ranging powers.
a wide-ranging discussion
a widely held belief
The idea is now widely accepted.
He has travelled widely in Asia.
Her books are widely read (= a lot of people read them).
He's an educated, widely-read man (= he has read a lot of books).
Standards vary widely.
Her eyes widened in surprise.
Here the stream widens into a river.
They may have to widen the road to cope with the increase in traffic.
the widening gap between rich and poor
We plan to widen the scope of our existing activities by offering more language courses.
The legislation will be widened to include all firearms.
a widescreen TV
widespread damage
The plan received widespread support throughout the country.
Company A produces two million widgets a year.
She was widowed when she was 35.
his widowed father
It's about 10 metres in width.
The terrace runs the full width of the house.
The carpet is available in different widths.
You'll need two widths of fabric for each curtain.
How many widths can you swim?
Cut the cake in half widthways.
the doctor's wife
She's his second wife.
an increase in the number of working wives
wifely duties
He removed his shoes and wiggled his toes.
Her bottom wiggled as she walked past.
The buyer still has some wiggle room when the deal is under contract.
The amendment leaves no wiggle room for lawmakers.
a poor wight
They had gone two days without food.
He found the place without difficulty.
She spoke without much enthusiasm.
Don't go without me.
Can you see without your glasses?
Don't go out without your coat.
He left without saying goodbye.
You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs.
Without wanting to criticize, I think you could have done better. (= used before you make a critical comment)
The party was organized without her knowing anything about it.
Do you want a room with a bath or one without?
If there's none left we'll have to do without.
I'm sure we'll manage without.
There's a wiki page hosted by the conference where you can share ideas and information.
wild animals/flowers
a wild rabbit
wild strawberries
The plants grow wild along the banks of rivers.
wild moorland
The boy is wild and completely out of control.
He had a wild look in his eyes.
wild laughter
The crowd went wild.
It makes me wild (= very angry) to see such waste.
He made a wild guess at the answer.
wild accusations
We had a wild time in New York.
She's totally wild about him.
I'm not wild about the idea.
a wild night
The sea was wild.
The bird is too tame now to survive in the wild.
the wilds of Alaska
(humorous) They live on a farm somewhere out in the wilds.
a herd of wildebeest
The Antarctic is the world's last great wilderness.
(NAmE) a wilderness area (= one where it is not permitted to build houses or roads)
(figurative) the barren wilderness of modern life
Their garden is a wilderness of grass and weeds.
Development of the area would endanger wildlife.
a wildlife habitat/sanctuary
She looked wildly around for an escape.
His heart was beating wildly.
The story had been wildly exaggerated.
It is not a wildly funny play.
wilful damage
a wilful child
The boss is a wily old fox.
Up to the day of the event, will-call is located at the main Ticket Office.
He was standing in the will-call line to collect two tickets.
They keep a list of people (who are) willing to work nights.
I'm perfectly willing to discuss the problem.
willing helpers/volunteers
willing support
She's very willing.
People would willingly pay more for better services.
'Will you help me?' 'Willingly.'
She was forced willy-nilly to accept the company's proposals.
Don't use your credit card willy-nilly.
The spectators were wilting visibly in the hot sun.
He was wilting under the pressure of work.
wimpish behaviour
Which team won?
to win at cards/chess, etc.
France won by six goals to two against Denmark.
to win an election/a game/a war, etc.
She loves to win an argument.
Britain won five gold medals.
He won £3 000 in the lottery.
How many states did the Republicans win?
The Conservatives won the seat from Labour in the last election.
You've won yourself a trip to New York.
They are trying to win support for their proposals.
The company has won a contract to supply books and materials to schools.
She won the admiration of many people in her battle against cancer.
OK, you win, I'll admit I was wrong.
Win or lose, we'll know we've done our best.
She's against the idea but I'm sure I can win her over.
The party is struggling to win back voters who have been alienated by recent scandals.
It won't be easy but we'll win through in the end.
two wins and three defeats
They have not had a win so far this season.
France swept to a 6–2 win over Denmark.
This is a win-win situation all around.
He winced as a sharp pain shot through his left leg.
I still wince when I think about that stupid thing I said.
a wince of pain
strong/high winds
a light wind
a north/south/east/west wind
a chill/cold/biting wind from the north
The wind is blowing from the south.
The trees were swaying in the wind.
A gust of wind blew my hat off.
The weather was hot, without a breath of wind.
The wall gives some protection from the prevailing wind.
The wind is getting up (= starting to blow strongly).
The wind has dropped (= stopped blowing strongly).
wind speed/direction
I can't eat beans—they give me wind.
Try to bring the baby's wind up.
I need time to get my wind back after that run.
He kicked Gomez in the stomach, knocking the wind out of him.
music for wind and strings
The wind section played beautifully.
He was momentarily winded by the blow to his stomach.
The path wound down to the beach.
The river winds its way between two meadows.
He wound the wool into a ball.
Wind the bandage around your finger.
He had forgotten to wind his watch.
It was one of those old-fashioned gramophones that winds up.
He wound the tape back to the beginning.
Wind forward to the bit where they discover the body.
You operate the trapdoor by winding this handle.
Give the handle another couple of winds.
The government is winding down its nuclear programme.
Can I wind my window down?
I always said he would wind up in prison.
We eventually wound up staying in a little hotel a few miles from town.
If you take risks like that you'll wind up dead.
The speaker was just winding up when the door was flung open.
If we all agree, let's wind up the discussion.
Calm down! Can't you see he's only winding you up?
That can't be true! You're winding me up.
Take the wind-chill factor into account.
wind-blown hair
The wind-down of the company was handled very efficiently.
an old-fashioned wind-up gramophone
a wind-up speech
The hospital got a sudden windfall of £300 000.
windfall profits
The government imposed a windfall tax (= a tax on profits to be paid once only, not every year) on some industries.
a windy day
windy hills
a long and winding road
a windless day
She looked out of the window.
to open/close the window
the bedroom/car/kitchen, etc. window
a broken window
I saw the dress I wanted in the window.
to create/open a window
There was a long line of people at the box-office window.
The address must be clearly visible through the window of the envelope.
Television is a sort of window on the world.
It gave me an intriguing window into the way people live.
We now have a small window of opportunity in which to make our views known.
The reforms are seen as window dressing.
to go window-shopping
a tiny, windowless cell
Place the plants on a sunny windowsill.
to go windsurfing
Most visitors come to sail or windsurf.
the windswept Atlantic coast
windswept hair
the windward side of the boat
to sail to windward
a bottle of wine
a glass of dry/sweet wine
red/rosé/white wine
sparkling wine
elderberry/rice wine
The swan flapped its wings noisily.
wing feathers
the east wing
the new wing of the hospital
There was a dent in the nearside wing.
the radical wing of the party
the political wing of the National Resistance Army
He plays on the wing.
A solitary seagull winged its way across the bay.
An application form will be winging its way to you soon.
I didn't know I'd have to make a speech—I just had to wing it.
Wing Commander Brian Moore
winged insects
a long-winged bird
a bird with a two-foot wingspan
He winked at her and she knew he was thinking the same thing that she was.
We could see the lights of the ship winking in the distance.
He gave her a knowing wink.
She always manages to winkle secrets out of people.
The winners of the competition will be announced next month.
There are no winners in a divorce (= everyone suffers).
I think your idea is a winner.
The design is very good. We could be onto a winner (= we may do or produce sth successful).
Rooney scored the winner after 20 minutes.
the winning horse
the winning goal
a winning smile
to be first past the winning post
the winningest coach in the history of the US national team
a winsome smile
a mild/severe/hard winter
Our house can be very cold in (the) winter.
They worked on the building all through the winter.
We went to New Zealand last winter.
the winter months
a winter coat
Many British birds winter in Africa.
The days are shorter in (the) wintertime.
wintry weather
a wintry landscape
wintry showers (= of snow)
a wintry smile
Please wipe your feet on the mat.
He wiped his hands on a clean towel.
She was sniffing and wiping her eyes with a tissue.
He wiped his plate clean with a piece of bread.
He wiped the sweat from his forehead.
(figurative) Wipe that stupid smile off your face.
She wiped off her make-up.
Use that cloth to wipe up the mess.
You must have wiped off that programme I recorded.
Somebody had wiped all the tapes.
I tried to wipe the whole episode from my mind.
You can never wipe out the past.
She took a cloth and wiped down the kitchen table.
Billions of pounds were wiped off share prices today.
All that travelling has wiped her out.
Whole villages were wiped out by the earthquake.
Last year's profits were virtually wiped out.
a campaign to wipe out malaria
Can you give the table a quick wipe?
Remember to take nappies and baby wipes.
You look wiped out.
The party faces virtual wipeout in the election.
a 5–0 wipeout
a coil of copper wire
a wire basket
The box was fastened with a rusty wire.
overhead wires
fuse wire
The telephone wires had been cut.
Three prisoners escaped by crawling under the wire.
We sent a wire asking him to join us.
Make sure the plug is wired up correctly.
In the test, volunteers were wired up to brain monitors.
The room had been wired for sound.
He wired the news to us.
He wired us the news.
The bank wired the money to her.
The bank wired her the money.
Many colleges now have wired dormitories.
I heard it on the wireless.
a message sent by wireless
wireless communications
the use of illegal wiretaps
a wiry little man
to check the wiring
a wiring diagram
Our son's having problems with his reading and writing (= at school).
a writing case (= containing paper, pens, etc.)
Only later did she discover a talent for writing.
He is leaving the band to concentrate on his writing.
creative writing
feminist/travel, etc. writing
The review is a brilliant piece of writing.
His experiences in India influenced his later writings.
the writings of Hegel
There was writing all over the desk.
Who's this from? I don't recognize the writing.
a woman of great wisdom
words of wisdom
I question the wisdom of giving a child so much money.
the collective wisdom of the Native American people
a wise old man
I'm older and wiser after ten years in the business.
a wise decision
It was very wise to leave when you did.
The wisest course of action is just to say nothing.
I was grateful for her wise counsel.
She nodded wisely.
He wisely decided to tell the truth.
He plays a wisecracking detective.
I wish I were taller.
(BrE also ) I wish I was taller.
I wish I hadn't eaten so much.
'Where is he now?' ' I only wish I knew!'
I wish you wouldn't leave your clothes all over the floor.
He's dead and it's no use wishing him alive again.
She wished herself a million miles away.
Do you wish (that) you had a better job?
I wish he were here tonight.
You may stay until morning, if you wish.
'I'd rather not talk now.' ' (Just) as you wish.'
This course is designed for people wishing to update their computer skills.
I wish to speak to the manager.
I don't wish (= I don't mean) to be rude, but could you be a little quieter?
She could not believe that he wished her harm.
He was not sure whether he wished her to stay or go.
She shut her eyes and wished for him to get better.
If you wish really hard, maybe you'll get what you want.
It's no use wishing for the impossible.
He has everything he could possibly wish for.
I wished her a happy birthday.
Wish me luck!
We wish them both well in their retirement.
I wouldn't wish something like that on my worst enemy.
She expressed a wish to be alone.
He had no wish to start a fight.
His dearest wish (= what he wants most of all) is to see his grandchildren again.
I can understand her wish for secrecy.
It was her dying wish that I should have it.
to carry out sb's wishes
I'm sure that you will get your wish.
She married against her parents' wishes.
Throw some money in the fountain and make a wish.
The genie granted him three wishes.
The prince's wish came true.
We all send our best wishes for the future.
Give my good wishes to the family.
With best wishes (= for example, at the end of a letter)
I've got a feeling that Alex likes me, but that might just be wishful thinking.
a wishy-washy liberal
a wishy-washy blue
wispy hair/clouds
a wispy beard
a wistful smile
She sighed wistfully.
'If only I had known you then,' he said wistfully.
to have a quick/sharp/dry/ready wit
a woman of wit and intelligence
a book full of the wit and wisdom of his 30 years in politics
a well-known wit and raconteur
He needed all his wits to find his way out.
The game was a long battle of wits.
Kate paused and gathered her wits.
a chance to pit your wits against (= compete with, using your intelligence) our quiz champion
a quick-witted group of students
At least you had the wit to ask for help.
It should not be beyond the wit of man to resolve this dispute.
Government troops were forced to withdraw.
Both powers withdrew their forces from the region.
She withdrew her hand from his.
Workers have threatened to withdraw their labour (= go on strike).
He withdrew his support for our campaign.
The drug was withdrawn from sale after a number of people suffered serious side effects.
There have been calls for Britain to withdraw from the EU.
The horse had been withdrawn from the race.
I'd like to withdraw £250 please.
The newspaper withdrew the allegations the next day.
She's beginning to withdraw into herself.
the withdrawal of support
the withdrawal of the UN troops from the region
the withdrawal of a product from the market
his withdrawal from the election
a campaign for Britain's withdrawal from the EU
You can make withdrawals of up to $250 a day.
I got withdrawal symptoms after giving up smoking.
The newspaper published a withdrawal the next day.
The grass had withered in the warm sun.
All our hopes just withered away.
withered leaves
withered limbs
withering scorn
She gave him a withering look.
She was accused of withholding information from the police.
You should receive a reply within seven days.
The ambulance arrived within minutes of the call being made.
Two elections were held within the space of a year.
a house within a mile of the station
Is it within walking distance?
That question is not within the scope of this talk.
We are now within range of enemy fire.
He finds it hard to live within his income (= without spending more than he earns).
The noise seems to be coming from within the building.
There is discontent within the farming industry.
Cleaner required. Apply within. (= on a sign)
The materials used have to be able to withstand high temperatures.
They had withstood siege, hunger and deprivation.
a witness to the killing
a defence/prosecution witness
to appear as (a) witness for the defence/prosecution
He was one of the witnesses at our wedding.
She was shocked by the violent scenes she had witnessed.
Police have appealed for anyone who witnessed the incident to contact them.
We are now witnessing an unprecedented increase in violent crime.
Recent years have witnessed a growing social mobility.
The retail trade is witnessing a sharp fall in sales.
to witness a signature
There has been increasing interest in her life and work, as witnessed by the publication of two new biographies.
The huge attendance figures for the exhibition witness to a healthy interest in modern art.
Authentic Italian cooking is very healthy—witness the low incidence of heart disease in Italy.
What's he wittering on about?
a witty speaker
It was clear that, wittingly or unwittingly, he had offended her.
a computer/financial, etc. wizard
electronic wizardry
The second goal was sheer wizardry.
a wizened little man
wizened apples
This chair wobbles.
(figurative) Her voice wobbled with emotion.
Don't wobble the table—I'm trying to write.
He wobbled off on his bike.
Yesterday the president showed the first signs of wobbling over the issue.
The handlebars developed a wobble.
The team is experiencing a mid-season wobble.
a chair with a wobbly leg
a wobbly tooth
He's still a bit wobbly after the operation (= not able to stand firmly).
the wobbly singing of the choir
The evening got off to a wobbly start.
a thick wodge of ten-pound notes
financial woes
Thanks for listening to my woes.
a tale of woe
a woebegone expression
She displayed a woeful ignorance of the rules.
a woeful face
woeful tales of broken romances
A flu wog struck.
the working population
a working mother
a working man
a working men's club
long working hours
poor working conditions
I have a good working relationship with my boss.
She spent most of her working life as a teacher.
recent changes in working practices
a working theory
Have you decided on a working title for your thesis yet?
an introduction to the workings of Congress
the workings of the human mind
the machine's inner workings
the Yorkshire Wolds
a pack of wolves
She was fed up with the builders' wolf whistles each morning.
an Irish wolfhound
wolfish yellow eyes
(figurative) a wolfish grin (= showing sexual interest in sb)
men, women and children
a 24-year-old woman
I prefer to see a woman doctor.
(informal) She's all woman!(= has qualities that are typical of women)
an Englishwoman
a businesswoman
a Congresswoman
a horsewoman
We used to have a woman to do the cleaning.
Be quiet, woman!
He's got a new woman in his life.
Working for herself meant that she could be her own woman.
He watched his daughters grow to womanhood.
the womanhood of this country
He has a womanish manner.
a womanish novel
womanly qualities
a soft womanly figure
to major in women's studies
The male hunters brought back the food for their womenfolk to cook.
I wonder who she is.
I was just beginning to wonder where you were.
'Why do you want to know?' 'No particular reason. I was just wondering.'
We were wondering about next April for the wedding.
'What should I do now?' she wondered.
I wonder if you can help me.
I was wondering whether you'd like to come to a party.
She wondered at her own stupidity.
(BrE, informal) He's gone and left us to do all the work, I shouldn't wonder (= I wouldn't be surprised if he had).
I wonder (that) he didn't hurt himself jumping over that wall.
I don't wonder you're tired. You've had a busy day.
He retained a childlike sense of wonder.
She gazed down in wonder at the city spread below her.
The Grand Canyon is one of the natural wonders of the world.
the wonders of modern technology
That's the wonder of poetry—you're always discovering something new.
the Seven Wonders of the World (= the seven most impressive structures of the ancient world)
Dita, you're a wonder! I would never have thought of doing that.
Have you seen the boy wonder play yet?
a new wonder drug
Her new diet and exercise programme has worked wonders for her.
a wonderful surprise
We had a wonderful time last night.
You've all been absolutely wonderful!
It's wonderful to see you!
It's wonderful what you can do when you have to.
The hotel is wonderfully comfortable.
Things have worked out wonderfully (well).
He's wonderfully fit for his age.
She gazed at him wonderingly.
the President's chief economic policy wonk
a wonky chair
He was wont to fall asleep after supper.
She got up early, as was her wont.
Voters are being wooed with promises of lower taxes.
Woo hoo! The weekend is here.
He chopped some wood for the fire.
a plank of wood
All the furniture was made of wood.
a wood floor
furniture made of a variety of different woods
a large wood
a walk in the woods
a woodblock floor
a wooden box
The actor playing the father was too wooden.
She speaks her lines very woodenly.
a woody valley
ancient woodland
The house is fringed by fields and woodlands.
woodland walks
the woodwind section of the orchestra
The woodwork needs painting.
(BrE) He hit the woodwork (= the wooden frame of the goal in the game of football/soccer, etc.) twice before scoring.
The beams are riddled with woodworm.
'Woof! Woof!' he barked.
a ball of wool
This scarf is 100% wool.
pure new wool
a wool blanket
a woollen blanket
woollen cloth
the woollen industry
woolly monkeys
a woolly hat
woolly arguments
It's the holidays! Woot!
Do you know the words to this song?
What's the Spanish word for 'table'?
He was a true friend in all senses of the word.
Tell me what happened in your own words.
I could hear every word they were saying.
He couldn't find the words to thank her enough.
Words fail me (= I cannot express how I feel).
There are no words to say how sorry we are.
I can't remember her exact words.
Angry is not the word for it —I was furious.
Have a word with Pat and see what she thinks.
Could I have a quick word with you (= speak to you quickly)?
A word of warning: read the instructions very carefully.
words of love
She left without a word (= without saying anything).
I don't believe a word of his story (= I don't believe any of it).
a man of few words (= who doesn't talk very much)
I'd like to say a few words about future plans.
Remember— not a word to (= don't tell) Peter about any of this.
He never breathed a word of this to me.
I give you my word that this won't happen again.
I give you my word of honour (= my sincere promise) …
We never doubted her word.
We only have his word for it that the cheque is in the post.
to keep your word (= do what you promised)
He promised to help and was as good as his word (= did what he promised).
He's a man of his word (= he does what he promises).
I trusted her not to go back on her word (= break her promise).
I can't prove it—you'll have to take my word for it (= believe me).
There's been no word from them since before Christmas.
She sent word that she would be late.
If word gets out about the affair, he will have to resign.
Word has it that she's leaving.
The word is they've split up.
He likes to spread the word about the importance of healthy eating.
She repeated their conversation word for word to me.
a word-for-word translation
He told me to leave—or words to that effect.
How was the letter worded (= what did it say exactly)?
a carefully worded speech
a strongly worded letter of protest
the Academic Word List
a wordy and repetitive essay
The wording was deliberately ambiguous.
a wordless cry/prayer
The opportunities available will depend on your previous work experience and qualifications.
A number of priceless works of art were stolen from the gallery.
The bride's dress was a work of art.
Part-time working is often the best way to improve your work-life balance.
a workable plan
Add more water until the dough is workable.
an 8-hour workday
workday traffic
There's no point in getting worked up about it.
farm/factory/office workers
rescue/aid/research workers
temporary/part-time/casual workers
manual/skilled/unskilled workers
Conflict between employers and workers intensified and the number of strikes rose.
talks between workers and management
a hard/fast/quick/slow worker
The factory has a 1 000-strong workforce.
Two thirds of the workforce is/are women.
A quarter of the local workforce is/are unemployed.
the political party of the working class
The working class has/have rejected them in the elections.
a working-class background
I spend most of my working day sitting at a desk.
Sunday is a normal working day for me.
Thousands of working days were lost through strikes last year.
Allow two working days (= not Saturday or Sunday) for delivery.
a 40-hour working week
a heavy workload
We have taken on extra staff to cope with the increased workload.
a good/bad workman
Our buyers insist on high standards of workmanship and materials.
She does a 20-minute workout every morning.
Clamp smaller workpieces to a bench.
the introduction of new technology into the workplace
The jeweller has a workroom at the back of his shop.
a drama workshop
a poetry workshop
to sail around the world
travelling (all over) the world
a map of the world
French is spoken in many parts of the world.
Which is the largest city in the world?
He's the world's highest paid entertainer.
a meeting of world leaders
campaigning for world peace
the Arab world
the English-speaking world
the industrialized and developing worlds
the ancient/modern world
There may be other worlds out there.
the animal/plant/insect world
stars from the sporting and artistic worlds
the natural world (= animals, plants, minerals, etc.)
They are a couple in the real world as well as in the movie.
The island is a world of brilliant colours and dramatic sunsets.
They had little contact with the outside world (= people and places that were not part of their normal life).
Parents are the most important people in a child's world.
When his wife died, his entire world was turned upside down.
We live in a rapidly changing world.
He's too young to understand the ways of the world.
The whole world was waiting for news of the astronauts.
She felt that the world was against her.
The eyes of the world are on the President.
monks and nuns renouncing the world
this world and the next (= life on earth and existence after death)
The next Rugby World Cup will take place in three years' time.
Your education is bound to shape your world view.
to browse a site on the World Wide Web
a world-class athlete
a world-famous scientist
His books are world-famous.
worldly success
your worldly goods (= the things that you own)
At 15, he was more worldly than his older cousins who lived in the country.
an increase in worldwide sales
The story has attracted worldwide attention.
We have 2 000 members worldwide.
birds looking for worms
The dog has worms.
This apple is full of worms.
She wormed her way through the crowd to the reception desk.
He managed to worm his way into her life.
We eventually wormed the secret out of her.
a wormy apple
an old pair of worn jeans
The stone steps were worn and broken.
She came out of the ordeal looking thin and worn.
These shoes are worn out.
the gradual replacement of worn-out equipment
a speech full of worn-out old clichés
Can we sit down? I'm worn out.
Don't look so worried!
I'm not worried about her—she can take care of herself.
Doctors are worried about the possible spread of the disease.
We're not too worried by these results.
The police are worried that the man may be armed.
I was worried you wouldn't come.
Where have you been? I've been worried sick (= extremely worried).
Try not to get worried.
She gave me a worried look.
He glanced worriedly at his father.
You had me worried for a moment—I thought you were going to resign!
Don't worry. We have plenty of time.
Don't worry about me. I'll be all right.
He's always worrying about his weight.
There's no point in worrying over things you can't change.
I worry that I won't get into college.
What worries me is how I am going to get another job.
He's worried himself sick (= become extremely anxious) about his daughter.
It worries me that he hasn't come home yet.
It worried me to think what might happen.
The noise never seems to worry her.
Don't keep worrying him with a lot of silly questions.
Rebecca worried at her lip.
He began to worry at the knot in the cord.
The threat of losing their jobs is a constant source of worry to them.
to be frantic with worry
family/financial worries
worries about the future
Mugging is a real worry for many old people.
My only worry is that…
a worrying development
It must be worrying for you not to know where he is.
It is particularly worrying that nobody seems to be in charge.
It's been a worrying time for us all.
worryingly high levels of radiation
Worryingly, the plan contains few details on how spending will be cut.
The rooms were awful and the food was worse.
The weather got worse during the day.
I've been to far worse places.
The interview was much worse than he had expected.
There's nothing worse than going out in the cold with wet hair.
They were trying to prevent an even worse tragedy.
The crisis was getting worse and worse.
Don't tell her that—you'll only make things worse.
Never mind—it could be worse (= although the situation is bad, it is not as bad as it might have been).
If he gets any worse we'll call the doctor.
He told her she'd let them down and she felt worse than ever.
I didn't do it very well, but, if anything, he did it worse than I did.
It's raining worse than ever.
She'd lost her job. Even worse, she'd lost her house and her children, too.
If you want a safe investment, you could do a lot worse than put your money in a building society.
I'm afraid there is worse to come.
The political situation is steadily worsening.
Her health has worsened considerably since we last saw her.
Staff shortages were worsened by the flu epidemic.
a worsening of the international debt crisis
worsening weather conditions
an act/a place of worship
ancestor worship
morning worship (= a church service in the morning)
We worship at St Mary's.
He worshipped at the local mosque.
She worships her children.
He worshipped her from afar (= he loved her but did not tell her his feelings).
She worships the ground he walks on.
the Worshipful Company of Goldsmiths
regular worshippers at St Andrew's Church
(figurative) sun worshippers lying on the beach
It was by far the worst speech he had ever made.
What's the worst thing that could happen?
What she said confirmed my worst fears (= proved they were right).
He was voted the worst dressed celebrity.
Manufacturing industry was worst affected by the fuel shortage.
Worst of all, I lost the watch my father had given me.
The worst of the storm was over.
When they did not hear from her, they feared the worst.
The worst of it is that I can't even be sure if they received my letter.
He was always optimistic, even when things were at their worst.
In the worst-case scenario more than ten thousand people might be affected.
a grey worsted suit
Our house is worth about £100 000.
How much is this painting worth?
to be worth a bomb/packet/fortune (= a lot of money)
It isn't worth much.
If you answer this question correctly, it's worth five points.
The museum is certainly worth a visit.
This idea is well worth considering.
It's worth making an appointment before you go.
Was it worth the effort?
The new house really wasn't worth all the expense involved.
The job involves a lot of hard work but it's worth it.
The trip was expensive but it was worth every penny.
He's worth £10 million.
The winner will receive fifty pounds' worth of books.
a dollar's worth of change
Their contribution was of great worth.
The activities help children to develop a sense of their own worth.
A good interview enables candidates to prove their worth (= show how good they are).
a personal net worth of $10 million
to be worthy of attention
A number of the report's findings are worthy of note.
No composer was considered worthy of the name until he had written an opera.
a worthy champion (= one who deserved to win)
He felt he was not worthy of her.
The money we raise will be going to a very worthy cause.
a worthy member of the team
her worthy but dull husband
He gave a speech that was worthy of Martin Luther King.
trustworthy
roadworthy
a meeting attended by local worthies
Critics say his paintings are worthless.
a worthless individual
Constant rejections made him feel worthless.
a sense of worthlessness
It was in aid of a worthwhile cause (= a charity, etc.)
The smile on her face made it all worthwhile.
High prices in the UK make it worthwhile for buyers to look abroad.
It is worthwhile to include really high-quality illustrations.
It didn't seem worthwhile writing it all out again.
'Wot's going on?' he shouted.
Wotcha Dave—thanks for coming.
a would-be actor
advice for would-be parents
a leg/head, etc. wound
a bullet/knife/gunshot/stab wound
an old war wound
The nurse cleaned the wound.
The wound healed slowly.
He died from the wounds he had received to his chest.
After a serious argument, it can take some time for the wounds to heal.
Seeing him again opened up old wounds.
He had been wounded in the arm.
She felt deeply wounded by his cruel remarks.
wounded soldiers
seriously wounded
There were 79 killed and 230 wounded.
wounded pride
He found her remarks deeply wounding.
Wow! You look terrific!
He wowed audiences around the country with his new show.
Don't worry. You'll be a wow.
If you want to sell your house quickly, it needs a wow factor.
WPC (Linda) Green
to type at 60 wpm
a wraith-like figure (= a very thin, pale person)
a legal wrangle between the company and their suppliers
They're still wrangling over the financial details.
He spent the evening wrapping up the Christmas presents.
individually wrapped chocolates
Wrap the meat in foil before you cook it.
I wrapped the baby (up) in a blanket.
I wrapped a blanket around the baby.
A scarf was wrapped around his neck.
His arms were wrapped around her waist.
How can I wrap the text around?
The text wraps around if it is too long to fit the screen.
She told them to wrap up warm/warmly.
That just about wraps it up for today.
We stock a wide range of cards and gift wrap.
Cut! That's a wrap.
wrap-around sunglasses
a wrap-around skirt
The minister declared that he was wrapped.
(BrE) sweet wrappers
(NAmE) candy wrappers
She tore the cellophane wrapping off the box.
shrink wrapping (= plastic designed to shrink around objects so that it fits them tightly)
The painting was still in its wrappings.
a piece/sheet/roll of wrapping paper
the wrath of God
The Queen laid a wreath at the war memorial.
a holly wreath
a laurel wreath
The mountain tops were wreathed in mist.
(figurative) Her face was wreathed in smiles (= she was smiling a lot).
smoke wreathing into the sky
Two passengers are still trapped in the wreck.
Physically, I was a total wreck.
The interview reduced him to a nervous wreck.
The house was a wreck when we bought it.
(figurative) They still hoped to salvage something from the wreck of their marriage.
a car/train wreck
The building had been wrecked by the explosion.
The road was littered with wrecked cars.
The weather wrecked all our plans.
A serious injury nearly wrecked his career.
The ship was wrecked off the coast of France.
A few survivors were pulled from the wreckage.
Pieces of wreckage were found ten miles away from the scene of the explosion.
(figurative) Could nothing be rescued from the wreckage of her dreams?
a wrecked ship/marriage
The bag was wrenched from her grasp.
He grabbed Ben, wrenching him away from his mother.
(figurative) Guy wrenched his mind back to the present.
They wrenched the door open.
She managed to wrench herself free.
She wrenched her knee when she fell.
His words wrenched a sob from her.
a wrenching experience
Her words wrenched at my heart.
Leaving home was a terrible wrench for me.
She stumbled and gave her ankle a painful wrench.
They attempted to wrest control of the town from government forces.
He wrested the gun from my grasp.
As a boy he had boxed and wrestled.
Armed guards wrestled with the intruder.
Shoppers wrestled the raider to the ground.
She had spent the whole weekend wrestling with the problem.
He wrestled with the controls as the plane plunged.
She has been wrestling to raise the money all year.
a poor wretch
You look wretched—what's wrong?
I felt wretched about the way things had turned out.
She had a wretched time of it at school.
The animals are kept in the most wretched conditions.
She finally agreed to have the wretched animal put down.
Is it that wretched woman again?
The baby was wriggling around on my lap.
She wriggled her toes.
The fish wriggled out of my fingers.
She managed to wriggle free.
They wriggled their way through the tunnel.
He tried desperately to wriggle out of giving a clear answer.
There were fine wrinkles around her eyes.
She wrinkled up her nose in distaste.
He wrinkled his brow in concentration.
His face wrinkled in a grin.
Her stockings were wrinkling at the knees.
She's broken her wrist.
He wore a copper bracelet on his wrist.
He was wearing an anti-racism wristband.
The company has been served with a writ for breach of contract.
We fully intend to issue a writ against the newspaper.
With meetings and phone calls, yesterday was a complete write-off.
written instructions
a written test
written communication skills
a written apology
a written contract
writers of poetry
a travel/cookery, etc. writer
the writer of this letter
a messy writer
She was writhing around on the floor in agony.
The snake writhed and hissed.
(figurative) He was writhing (= suffering a lot) with embarrassment.
I got all the answers wrong.
He was driving on the wrong side of the road.
Sorry, I must have dialled the wrong number.
You're holding the camera the wrong way up!
That picture is the wrong way round.
I think she lives at number 44, but I could be wrong.
You were wrong about Tom; he's not married after all.
We were wrong to assume that she'd agree.
She would prove him wrong (= prove that he was wrong) whatever happened.
(informal) You think you've beaten me but that's where you're wrong.
(informal) Correct me if I'm wrong (= I may be wrong) but didn't you say you two knew each other?
We were wrong to assume she'd agree.
She gave false information to the insurance company.
You're completely mistaken about Jane.
Many of the figures were incorrect.
The report was badly researched and quite inaccurate.
In her misguided attempts to help, she only made the situation worse.
Is anything wrong? You look worried.
' What's wrong?' 'Oh, nothing.'
There's something wrong with the printer.
The doctor could find nothing wrong with him.
I have something wrong with my foot.
He's the wrong person for the job.
I realized that it was the wrong thing to say.
We don't want this document falling into the wrong hands.
It was his bad luck to be in the wrong place at the wrong time (= so that he got involved in trouble without intending to).
This man has done nothing wrong.
It is wrong to tell lies.
It was wrong of me to get so angry.
What's wrong with eating meat?
It is wrong that he should not be punished for what he did.
My name is spelt wrong.
The program won't load. What am I doing wrong?
I was trying to apologize but it came out wrong (= what I said sounded wrong).
'I thought you were going out.' 'Well you must have thought wrong, then!'
My name was spelled wrong.
I'm afraid you guessed wrong.
My name was wrongly spelt.
She guessed wrongly that he was a teacher.
For a quick lunch you can't go wrong with pasta.
Children must be taught the difference between right and wrong.
Her son can do no wrong in her eyes.
It is time to forgive past wrongs if progress is to be made.
He felt deeply wronged by the allegations.
It was an attempt to wrong-foot the opposition.
wrong-headed beliefs
She decided to sue her employer for wrongful dismissal.
to be wrongfully convicted/dismissed
She was wrongly accused of stealing.
He assumed, wrongly, that she did not care.
The sentence had been wrongly translated.
They knew they had acted wrongly.
Rightly or wrongly, they felt they should have been better informed (= I do not know whether they were right to feel this way).
This century wrought major changes in our society.
The storm wrought havoc in the south.
The gates were made of wrought iron.
wrought-iron gates
'At least we got one vote,' she said with a wry smile.
He pulled a wry face when I asked him how it had gone.
a wry comedy about family life
a wry comment
wry humour
to smile wryly
Don't be such a wuss!
several useful WWW addresses
'Xylophone' begins with (an) X/'X'.
The equation is impossible for any value of x greater than 2.
Let's suppose X knows what Y is doing.
Love from Kathy XXX.
Write X beside the candidate of your choice.
X marks the spot.
She certainly has the X factor that all great singers have.
an X-ray machine (= one that produces X-rays )
a chest X-ray
The doctor studied the X-rays of her lungs.
to take an X-ray
I had to go for an X-ray.
He had to have his chest X-rayed.
a campaign against racism and xenophobia
Could you xerox this letter, please?
a Xerox machine
an XL T-shirt
XLNT point!
A merry Xmas to all our readers!
'Year' begins with (a) Y/'Y'.
Can the value of y be predicted from the value of x?
a pair of Y-Fronts
He said, 'I got something for ya.'
Let's go for a drink, yaar!
a yacht club/race
a motor yacht
a luxury yacht
a round-the-world yachtsman
His new girlfriend is attractive, funny, smart, yada yada yada.
in the year 1865
I lost my job earlier this year.
Elections take place every year.
The museum is open all (the) year round (= during the whole year).
It's exactly a year since I started working here.
She gave up teaching three years ago.
in the first year of their marriage
the pre-war/war/post-war years (= the period before/during/after the war)
I have happy memories of my years in Poland (= the time I spent there).
the academic/school year
the tax year
We started German in year seven.
a year-seven pupil
The first years do French.
She was in my year at school.
He was 14 years old when it happened.
She looks young for her years.
They were both only 20 years of age.
a twenty-year-old man
He died in his sixtieth year.
She's getting on in years (= is no longer young).
It's years since we last met.
They haven't seen each other for years.
That's the best movie I've seen in years.
We've had a lot of fun over the years.
Year by year their affection for each other grew stronger.
Spending has increased year on year.
a year-on-year increase in spending
Yah, you missed!
Yahoo, we did it!
She just kept yakking on.
hard yakka
He yanked her to her feet.
I yanked the door open.
Liz yanked at my arm.
She gave the rope a yank.
The dogs yapped at his heels.
yapping dogs
the prison yard
The children were playing in the yard at the front of the school.
a boat yard
a yardstick by which to measure sth
Exam results are not the only yardstick of a school's performance.
He used to spin yarns (= tell stories) about his time in the Army.
Yarn bombing is another recent form of graffiti.
Party leaders are planning on embarking on their campaign yatras later in the year.
He stood up, stretched and yawned.
A crevasse yawned at their feet.
(figurative) There's a yawning gap between rich and poor.
She stifled another yawn and tried hard to look interested.
The meeting was one big yawn from start to finish.
The series was a yawny, over-acted costume drama.
I've got cold toes and a yawny head.
I won! Yay!
The fish I caught was yay big.
Yay good movie!
12 yds of silk
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may.
Ye Olde Starre Inn
'You'll be fine.' 'Yeah, right.'
a year-long dispute
an island with year-round sunshine
Pay is reviewed on a yearly basis.
yearly income/interest
The magazine is issued twice yearly (= twice every year).
The people yearned for peace.
There was a yearning look in his eyes.
She yearned to escape from her office job.
a yearning for a quiet life
She had no great yearning to go back.
a yeasty smell
Yebo Craig. Thanks for the email.
Higher-rate deposit accounts yield good returns.
The research has yielded useful information.
trees that no longer yield fruit
After a long siege, the town was forced to yield.
He reluctantly yielded to their demands.
I yielded to temptation and had a chocolate bar.
He refused to yield up his gun.
(figurative) The universe is slowly yielding up its secrets.
Despite our attempts to break it, the lock would not yield.
Yield to oncoming traffic.
a yield sign
Barges yielded to road vehicles for transporting goods.
a high crop yield
a reduction in milk yield
This will give a yield of 10% on your investment.
He yelled at the other driver.
She yelled at the child to get down from the wall.
They yelled with excitement.
She yelled out in pain.
'Be careful!' he yelled.
The crowd yelled encouragement at the players.
He yelled out her name.
to let out/give a yell
a yell of delight
pale yellow flowers
a bright yellow waterproof jacket
She was dressed in yellow.
the reds and yellows of the trees
double yellow lines (= two lines that mean you cannot park there at all)
The paper had a yellowish tinge because it was so old.
I've always had a yen to travel around the world.
'Are you ready?' 'Yep.'
See yer when I get back.
What's yer name?
'Is this your car?' 'Yes, it is.'
'Are you coming? Yes or no?'
'I enjoyed her latest novel.' 'Yes, me too.'
'It's an excellent hotel.' ' Yes, but (= I don't completely agree) it's too expensive.'
'I've never met her before.' 'Yes, you have.'
'Dad, can I borrow the car?' 'Yes, but be careful.'
We're hoping that they will say yes to our proposals.
'Would you like a drink?' ' Yes, please/thanks.'
Yes? How can I help you?
'Waiter!' 'Yes, sir?'
Where did I put the keys? Oh, yes—in my pocket!
'I'm going to Paris this weekend.' 'Yes…'
'Sorry I'm late—the bus didn't come.' 'Oh yes?'
Mrs Smith has just won £2 million—yes!—£2 million!
'They've scored another goal.' 'Yes!!'
'Hurry up—it's late.' 'Yes, yes—I'm coming.'
I need a simple yes or no to my questions.
There will be two ballot boxes—one for yesses and one for noes.
I'll put you down as a yes.
Yessir, she was beautiful.
They arrived yesterday.
I can remember our wedding as if it were yesterday.
Where were you yesterday morning?
To think I was lying on a beach only the day before yesterday.
Yesterday was Sunday.
What happened at yesterday's meeting?
Yesterday's students are today's employees.
All her yesterdays had vanished without a trace.
Email—that's so yesterday!
(BrE) I haven't received a letter from him yet.
(NAmE) I didn't receive a letter from him yet.
'Are you ready?' 'No, not yet.'
We have yet to decide what action to take (= We have not decided what action to take).
Don't go yet.
We don't need to start yet.
He'll be busy for ages yet.
They won't arrive for at least two hours yet.
We may win yet.
(formal) She could yet surprise us all.
the most comprehensive study yet of his music
It was the highest building yet constructed.
snow, snow and yet more snow
yet another diet book
Prices were cut yet again (= once more, after many other times).
a recent and yet more improbable theory
It's a small car, yet it's surprisingly spacious.
He has a good job, and yet he never seems to have any money.
high/low yielding crops
We stayed at the YMCA.
Highly recommend the company! Of course, YMMV.
He kept bouncing up and down like a yo-yo.
When I was young my weight yo-yoed between 140 and 190 pounds.
She worries about her pattern of yo-yo dieting.
yogic techniques
natural yogurt
There's a yogurt left if you're still hungry.
a lemon yogurt
the yoke of imperialism
A pair of oxen, yoked together, was used.
an ox yoked to a plough
The Hong Kong dollar was yoked to the American dollar for many years.
Separate the whites from the yolks.
We ordered pretty nearly every appetizer and every entrée. YOLO
a 30-mile yomp
There's an old farm over yon hill.
Let's rest under yonder tree.
Whose is that farm over yonder?
I haven't seen you for yonks!
You said you knew the way.
I thought she told you.
Can I sit next to you?
I don't think that hairstyle is you (= it doesn't suit your appearance or personality).
You girls, stop talking!
You stupid idiot!
You learn a language better if you visit the country where it is spoken.
It's a friendly place—people come up to you in the street and start talking.
Have you-all brought swimsuits?
young babies
a young country
Caterpillars eat the young leaves of this plant.
a young wine
The night is still young (= it has only just started).
young people
talented young football players
I am the youngest of four sisters.
In his younger days he played rugby for Wales.
I met the young Michelle Obama at Princeton.
Her grandchildren keep her young.
My son's thirteen but he's young for his age (= not as developed as other boys of the same age).
They married young (= at an early age).
My mother died young.
They have a young family.
a young audience
young fashion
The clothes she wears are much too young for her.
I think you owe me an apology, young lady!
the younger Kennedy
(BrE, formal) William Pitt the younger
It's a movie that will appeal to the young.
It's a book for young and old alike.
a mother bird feeding her young
a young offender institution
bright young things working in the computer business
a youngish president
The camp is for youngsters aged 8 to 14.
I like your dress.
Excuse me, is this your seat?
The bank is on your right.
Dentists advise you to have your teeth checked every six months.
In Japan you are taught great respect for your elders.
This is your typical English pub.
(ironic, disapproving) You and your bright ideas!
Your Majesty
Your Excellency
Is that book yours?
Is she a friend of yours?
My hair is very fine. Yours is much thicker.
(BrE) Yours sincerely/faithfully
(NAmE) Sincerely Yours
(NAmE) Yours Truly
Let's go back to yours after the show.
Have you hurt yourself?
You don't seem quite yourself today (= you do not seem well or do not seem as happy as usual).
Enjoy yourselves!
Do it yourself—I don't have time.
You can try it out for yourselves.
You yourself are one of the chief offenders.
We sell a lot of these to people like yourself.
'And yourself,' he replied, 'How are you?'
He had been a talented musician in his youth.
She brings to the job a rare combination of youth and experience.
The fight was started by a gang of youths.
the nation's youth
the youth of today
youth culture
youth unemployment
He was sentenced to two years' youth custody.
a youth custody centre
to go youth hostelling
youthful enthusiasm/energy/inexperience
She's a very youthful 65.
children aged 4–11 yrs
It's filthy! Yuck!
yucky food
Yuletide food and drink
a yummy cake
celebrity yummy mummies
members of the YWCA
'Zebra' begins with (a) Z/'Z'.
I need to catch some Z's.
There are too many reality shows featuring Z-list celebrities.
zany humour
The monster got zapped by a flying saucer (= in a computer game).
It's vital to zap stress fast.
He jumped like a man who'd been zapped with 1 000 volts.
I'm zapping through (= reading very fast) some modern novels at the moment.
The racing cars zapped past us.
a bug zapper
All prices listed are in ZAR.
her missionary/reforming/religious/political zeal
religious zealotry
a zealous reformer
Kenya's beef comes from the zebu cattle.
Five, four, three, two, one, zero… We have lift-off.
It was ten degrees below zero last night (= −10°C).
The thermometer had fallen to zero.
I rated my chances as zero.
zero inflation
They zeroed in on the key issues.
a zero-carbon house that uses no energy from external sources
He had a great zest for life.
The slight risk added zest to the experience.
You can zhoosh up the basic pudding mix with all sorts of lovely things.
The path descended the hill in a series of zigzags.
a zigzag line/path/pattern
The narrow path zigzags up the cliff.
I arrived in this country with zilch.
There was a bunch of kids waiting and zillions of reporters.
They built a temporary home out of zincs.
electrical pulses zinging down a wire
She opened the speech with a real zinger.
to do up/undo/open/close a zip
My zip's stuck.
We won four zip (= 4–0).
He said zip all evening.
I zipped and buttoned my jacket.
The children were safely zipped into their sleeping bags.
He zipped his case shut.
The sleeping bags can zip together.
A sports car zipped past us.
This jacket zips up right to the neck.
Shall I zip you up (= fasten your dress, etc.)?
a zip-up top
a zippy little car
a wine with a zippy tang
the signs of the zodiac
People do occasionally act funny when they find out I am “a girl on the Internet! ZOMG!"
When you complain about having to listen to a child cry, ZOMG, does it not occur to you that you might be talking about a sad, scared or suffering person?
a war/security/demilitarized, etc. zone
an earthquake/danger, etc. zone
a pedestrian zone (= where vehicles may not go)
postal charges to countries in zone 2
When the needle enters the red zone the engine is too hot.
the erogenous zones of the body
the northern/southern temperate zone
The town centre was zoned for office development.
I just zoned out for a moment.
zoned housing land
Traffic zoomed past us.
For five weeks they zoomed around Europe.
House prices have zoomed up this year.
The camera zoomed in on the actor's face.
a zoom shot
